PvA S4E153
===

​


[00:00:01] Open
---

[00:00:01] Troy: So

Alex is fresh off a three day stint in Japan. Brian,

[00:00:05] Brian: I heard,

[00:00:06] Troy: he was, and you know, WhatsApp doesn't work in Japan, it turns out. so Alex was invisible for the last three days and we were like, you know, where, where is he? Where's Alex? Has he left the podcast?

[00:00:17] Alex: Yeah. Now WhatsApp does work, I also got the iPhone 17 Pro upgrade. 

so I never got WhatsApp connected, so I didn't see any of your messages while I was in Japan.

It was nice. I was just really, felt like a, I was so far, far away from everything.

[00:00:32] Troy: ​


[00:00:42] Gaming in Japan
---

[00:00:42] Brian: Alex, do you have a report from Japan? You were

there,

I assume for gaming or

[00:00:47] Alex: Yeah. It was a, it was a, it was a gaming event. We were like, therefore, it was set up by one of our investors, but it was also, the beginning of the Tokyo Game Show, which, together with Gamescom in, in Germany is like the big, the big kind of video game, event. it's incredible. Like, I've been in, I've been to Japan before, but never for video games.

just the scale of that industry in Japan. and just how seriously people take it, and, and being there when, when there's an event where, well, all that, all that industry congregates, 

[00:01:20] Troy: Did they? Did you see people driving around Tokyo in go-karts with Mario

outfits on? 

[00:01:26] Alex: I didn't, I I heard about that. I didn't. It's a big city though. I have 37 million people. It's like nearly as big as California, isn't it? Like, isn't it that big? It's, it's,

[00:01:35] Troy: It's bigger than re, it's bigger than Regina

it's bigger than China. no, it was great. incredible numbers coming from China. China remains so, so, I, and I think this is a media story, if I can, if you can let me,articulated.

[00:01:50] Alex: yeah.

Articulate it or also like, just like let myself talk about video games, which I know like is frowned upon on this podcast. talking about video games, 

[00:01:58] Troy: Four out of five Listeners don't want you talking about video games.

[00:02:02] Brian: it's four until four.

[00:02:04] Alex: All right. So for the, for the 20%,

there's a, an American company called Valve that,does something called Steam, which is the largest game store,in the world. And it, it mostly runs on PCs, but also exists on Mac West, but it's mostly a PC play. and it's also one of the,

[00:02:20] Troy: Preferred platform of Antifa.

[00:02:23] Alex: well I'm, I'm sure, I'm sure you can link a lot of, those folks to some game that they might have downloaded on Steam E Everybody who's playing video game downloads them on Steam. Basically, it's a pretty small company, you know, sub 300 employees, privately owned. it's an American company that's doing great in China.

It does great business in China. it is not messed with, and for a software company, that's unheard of. and I was interested to hear like how, especially like independent kind of video games do in China, because, when you release your game in China, the rule of thumb is you should reduce your cost by, by three x.

So if your game is $15, $20, let's say $15, your game in China is $5. Even with that, if it does as well in China, proportionally as it does everywhere else, you know, if, if it does as, as well in China, as, as you expect it to, it is, 40% of your revenue.China is this gigantic gaming market. so much so that the Chinese government has had to put regulation in place to, you know, stop people from overplaying, it seems.

But yeah, it's really interesting. It's really interesting how big some of these markets are, but especially China and China via, you know, an American e-store, you know, and they get 30% of everything. It's an incredible business. Incredible.

[00:03:46] Brian: what about culturally? I, I used to, I used to go to Japan every year. we had a, a joint venture there. and I miss that. It's the only thing I miss about, about my old job. I mean, working with the other people, but outside of that,

[00:03:58] Alex: Yeah. 

[00:03:59] Brian: Yeah, no, I miss John Soul. I like John. but last was in Japan, like literally right before the pandemic started, it was the, the diamond princess was, was there. I was like, this is nothing. Why are these people putting on masks? that, that didn't, age well? I always love Japan. what's your favorite, like part, I assume you liked it. what's your favorite part of like, only in Japan?

[00:04:22] Alex: I mean, only in Japan, everything, there's always, talking to American people that went there for the first time and realized that nothing works in America. The amount of American people going, wait, why can't we have this and why can't we wait? You mean the subway? Like, you know. The train will take you everywhere.

And there's like, the high, the high speed rail is blowing everyone's minds. I think part of it that always surprises me is just like, how so much of the way society works is norms, right? There isn't a lot of, there isn't a lot of like policing of it because everybody, you know, they have no trash cans yet.

People don't throw stuff away. they don't have gates in front of things. you know, but the bathrooms don't have key, you know, like, wow. Imagine going into a Starbucks and you don't have to put a, a four pin code into bathroom, to use it. and it's, it's all like norms based and it's, pretty interesting to see a 

[00:05:15] Troy: I like

that.

you could smoke in the New York bar and the Park Hyatt. I thought that was civilized.

[00:05:21] Alex: And yet smoking is really like frowned upon for the rest in the rest of the city. You don't see much smoking at all happening outside. Um, 

[00:05:28] Brian: a lot of smoking in Japan. I

[00:05:30] Alex: It's, I mean, maybe it's new and I 

[00:05:32] Brian: Oh, no, no, but so they, they have designated areas

[00:05:35] Alex: designated area. That's right. And also vaping, the kind of the traditional vapes that you get in America, you know, the JUUL type thing, which are the liquid vapes are actually, illegal unless you have a prescription.

And they, they all use these, vapes where you put a hard cigarette stick in it that looks like a cigarette

and it tastes more like a cigarette. 

[00:05:55] Troy: those are Euro, Euro hybrid vapes. They're also

huge in the Middle East.

[00:05:59] Alex: But you know, everything, I mean, you know, everything you expect from Japan, just like the service, the infrastructure. I don't, you know, the thing is I keep, I keep hearing it.

I, I kind of tend to believe it. Like how, how absolutely fucked the economy is in Europe and how 

[00:06:15] Brian: you never see it. You 

[00:06:17] Alex: Economy in Japan. And then I go there and I talk to people and everybody seems to be having a pretty decent time. and meanwhile here, we're winning. And, people complain more.

[00:06:28] Brian: Yeah, I'm like walk, I'm like walking up by a guy who's like twitching from like fentanyl, like outside of my apartment. And then you go to Japan and it's like everything's spotless. I will say Japan is kind of like the apple of of countries for a bunch of different reasons. Like it's a full stack solution.

and that allows them to have different, different things that don't work in, in other societies there's trade offs. You know, they don't

[00:06:52] Alex: yeah, of course. I mean, I, you know, we're 

simplifying it for, right. Yeah. I mean, we're having fun here, but like every, you know, every society and culture and, you know, works because of things that, you know, they've been developing for hundreds if not thousands of years. And, you can't just. You know, carry things over.

However, I do think we could have high speed trains. Like it keeps, every time I use one, I keep thinking like, this would be such an accelerant for this country, you know, to be able to, to go down to LA or for you guys, you know, to go up 

to, I don't know, Boston or Miami.

[00:07:28] Brian: you know, it was suggested. I, I'm, I'm at this, offsite event. I just gave, gave a talk to you an IEE spectrum. they're the, the publication from the engineering association. and 

[00:07:39] Troy: Fucking humble brag there.

[00:07:41] Alex: yeah, like you, you got invited by some serious brainiacs. 

[00:07:44] Troy: Elon Musk

wrote for that pub. 

[00:07:46] Brian: He did 2009. 

Um, no, great,

great group. but actually it got brought up that like maybe if, if we give Tylenol to more, mothers to be, that we would have high speed rail l.

[00:07:59] Alex: that's the Yeah, that 


[00:08:02] CCO Role In The Information Space
---

[00:08:02] Troy: I hadn't realized that Tylenol came up as a stand-in for acetaminophen, which you

[00:08:07] Brian: Trump couldn't. Well, yeah. So this is what I wanna talk about. Trump. Trump basically couldn't pronounce, acetaminophen, which is a difficult word to pronounce. So

he just went with the genericized Tylenol and then he just kept repeating again and again and again. Do not take Tylenol. Do not take Tylenol. Do not take Tylenol. And I wrote a little bit about it today 'cause I really do think it's really interesting. The role of like the chief communications officer at companies is really fascinating with how you navigate the information space and all that we talk about here. Now, some of this is acute to Trump, but you look at like Tylenol now, when I was a kid, I remember Tylenol being able to cer to, to muscle their way through. the, remember the tampering that took place.

So Tylenol's in like 1982, some maniac tampered with Tylenols and killed a bunch of people and it became like we didn't have the internet. It became like a national like panic and they were able to, you know, go on 2020, sit down with you downs and Barbara Walters calm the situation j and j like, and it became like a, uh, was able to get through it and it became a sort of case study with how you do crisis communications. Fast forward to now, very different environment. Particularly, I think you're seeing this in the aftermath of the Charlie Kirk. Psychodrama continues. you know, Starbucks has been caught up in this like multiple times. There was a, there was basically a FA fake meme going around that said that Starbucks would not let people put Charlie Kurt's name on cups when they were going into order his favorite drink. and then. So they, they kind of swatted that away 'cause it was untrue. But then they, they have some like 380,000 like baristas. Then one did when someone ordered this, put like your racist, your ra, racist, favorite drink as the name on the, uh, cup.

So that of course goes su goes super viral and, very fraught situation for companies when it comes to how they handle communications, in this kind of environment. and it's beyond marketing to me. It's, and it's beyond pr I think communications is a different, is a different thing altogether.

[00:10:32] Troy: Well, you highlighted this in what I think is maybe the podcast of the week. I, I don't follow that podcast. Is that, Altman's brother that does that? 

[00:10:41] Brian: Yes.

[00:10:42] Troy: It is. Okay. He sounds a little like him.

[00:10:44] Alex: can you, can you reference it? I don't know what you 

[00:10:46] Troy: what is the name of the 

[00:10:47] Alex: Remember I was in Japan?

[00:10:49] Troy: right?

[00:10:50] Brian: it's called, he's Jack Altman. It's called Uncapped with Jack Altman. You know, it's another, it's a VC podcast. I don't, I'm not like a regular, 

[00:10:59] Alex: Lulu Chang Ervy was on the podcast and she's a communication expert and she had a stint set where Coinbase and Substack and 

[00:11:08] Brian: Yeah, I know. We're at Substack.

[00:11:10] Troy: she is special, super articulate, really smart, She, I think she counsels founders on how to kind of engage in a sort of, sort of like, her whole pitch is how to get people cheering for you, essentially, right? How to find yourself in a, you know, to kind of cast yourself as a character in a narrative where people want you to win and want

your company to win. And so I, I, she's really great. It's a great podcast.

[00:11:41] Alex: I mean, that's certainly very powerful, but it's, it's, I think it's become. Especially when you have, you know, a thousand, 10,000, a hundred thousand employees. I, I think the, the, the moment allows for any one of those to completely kind of destroy this narrative for at least a portion of the population that wants to see you fail, whichever side you're on.

Right. Like, I, I, I, I don't know what you do as kind of a communications expert today. Like, I mean, what happened with, with Disney and then, what's happening now with Starbucks, just shows that you can just be put into constantly impossible situations because it only has to happen once, right? Like the, social media allows you to turn one event into like a million different pieces of content.

That's the issue we have.

[00:12:27] Brian: That I think is true, but I think you know what Lulu really advocates is this going direct playbook, right? That I think is like breezed by by, you know, a lot of, you know, venture capitalists like, and I think this really is centered in the tech industry, but it will spread to other industries. And it's basically don't trust others to communicate your message. You are gonna be the communicator of your message. You know, her thing is that every single founder has to be, you can't outsource, you know, being the face and the spokesperson for your company. And I think you're seeing that spread. I mean, you think about Andre and the guy Palmer, lucky, you know, I mean, he's like an embodiment and I'm sure you know, you're the number one recruiter for talent for your company. And it makes a, it makes a, a ton of sense and I think it gives you a lot of leverage when inevitably you do get pulled into these things. Because I think a challenge for a lot of companies is they're left scrambling with an old crisis playbook because they didn't do the work ahead of time, to build their own sort of media platform in some ways.

[00:13:36] Troy: Yeah, I mean it's certainly Muskan and Trumpian and you know, whether you like the way they communicate or not. I mean, it's part of the times we live in, isn't it,

direct. 

[00:13:47] Brian: 100%. 


[00:13:48] Kimmel Comeback
---

[00:13:48] Brian: Disney is, is 

[00:13:50] Troy: Bob Iger manage this one? Well, I mean, it seems like in the, you know, the follow up, late night episode that, Kimmel did a good job that Disney ended up getting out of it, I think, better than we expected. What was your take on

the Kimmel performance? Brian?

[00:14:06] Brian: I'm less emotional now, Troy?I don't like to get emotional, but, 

[00:14:10] Troy: Are you you referring to your reaction to.

[00:14:14] Brian: I think you caught it. My rant, I believe at the magazine launch party. You called it my rant.

[00:14:20] Troy: You mean when you were really upset about, people smothering free

[00:14:23] Brian: Just, just the first amendment. Troy. Just the first amendment,

[00:14:27] Alex: He doesn't have, he's Canadian, so he doesn't have it. 

[00:14:31] Brian: Well, that and the that, that and the third party cookie are two things that I'll absolutely tie myself to the railroad tracks for.

no, I think I'm, I'm actually open to him like managing this from, from a corporate comms, perspective quite well because he was put in a tremendous bind. I mean, the reality is that Disney is a massive corporation with tons of interest. ESPN is in the midst of buying the NFL. He has a fiduciary responsibility. I don't think that, Bob Iger really wants to roll over for, for Donald Trump or for anyone. I really don't believe that. It just like does not match up with everything, that I've ever read about the guy.

I don't know him. but, I think this is still, we'll see where this, this goes next. I mean, this is not going to stop because a lot of, you know, it's funny because Kimmel came back on air and a lot of these sort of acolytes in the, the manosphere said, see, it had nothing to do with government pressure.

And then immediately, of course, Trump comes on and puts more pressure on, he always like cuts off the people who go and try to put like some sort of distance like between like what he's doing and like, you know, just be like, well, let's put some wiggle room in here. And then he just comes back. He's like, no, this is exactly what, what I'm doing.

And 

[00:15:58] Troy: But Kimmel's performance was a nine outta 10, I think,

[00:16:02] Brian: well he had to, you know, he had, he did, 

he did what 

[00:16:04] Troy: he 

didn't appear to, you know, he showed contrition and emotion. He, subtly

and humor. 

[00:16:11] Alex: having to apologize.

[00:16:12] Troy: He, well, he went

after Trump and Carr in the episode, you know, there it was, it was funny and pointed. And,

[00:16:19] Brian: Do you think he 

[00:16:19] Troy: he I think He gave, 

[00:16:21] Brian: choked up. Do you think 

[00:16:22] Troy: yeah, I think he's a crier.

He's, he is been known to cry here and there. I think he gave Disney a plausible path. you know, that they were. You know, upset about what he said, that they were feeling the pressure from the affiliates, that they needed some time to kind of work through things. And I don't know, it, it felt like Disney kind of got out of it.

Okay. it also showed, I suppose, that maybe the fccs power is withering for sure, because, you know, broadcast licenses aren't worth what they were. and in this case, even though the affiliates cut off 20% of their distribution into some, you know, some key markets, they had what to, to date? 15 million views on YouTube.

There's a workaround now, you know, people got to see it. Besides that, anybody, most people, anybody that isn't old is watching, you know, clips on YouTube anyway. They're not watching, they're not tuning in at 1130.

[00:17:14] Alex: No, and, 

[00:17:14] Brian: I 

mean this, this 

[00:17:15] Alex: did, uh, did some records.

[00:17:17] Brian: yeah, well this is a classic dead cat bounce for like late night tv and this is a dying genre and, you know, leave it to Trump who's like a creature of the past to go after something that is probably going away, on its own merits. Right? I mean, the late night TV as a genre is, its past due date is like, it's gone sour at this point.

I mean, we've talked about the uncanny valley of a lot of these formats. they don't have. The singular place, obviously in the culture that they once did. I thought Bill Simmons had an interesting take. You know, he, he's friends with Kimmel and he had, he had worked on the show, briefly, I forget how many years ago, I think before he went to ESPN. so he's obviously got, got, got a dog in this fight. but he made the point and I thought it was, it was interesting that they don't, you don't need the platform necessarily. Like, I mean obviously Jimmy Kimmel needs Disney right to be, to for his show. He's also the face of it. He hosts their upfronts and whatnot. Um, 

[00:18:25] Troy: to be a millionaire, you know? 

[00:18:27] Brian: now

[00:18:27] Troy: But you know, what happened is that the, the show brand, right? The Kimmel Show and the network brand a, b, c, have become kind of akin to the magazine cover. They're not important from a media distribution perspective like they used to be, but they're still,have a kind of vestige of, or a veneer, like a prestige to 'em that still matters

because. 

[00:18:52] Brian: whom? With like 

[00:18:53] Troy: Well, I think that that, that it it can be an accelerant in, you know, other distribution channels like YouTube and it's a signifier that this is an important person or message or, you know, it's, it is just like a magazine cover. It doesn't mean anything from a distribution perspective.

But you were on the cover of time, you know, you made it to the cover. Still a thing.

[00:19:18] Brian: Yeah. I think that, I mean, is it like I it's still, it's still something, yeah. People still care about being on magazine covers and I think the, the role, you know, Troy and I were at a magazine launch party. I can't believe there's magazine launch parties in 2025.

[00:19:32] Troy: Well, I mean, important that it was, you know, underwritten by an investment bank, but yeah,

[00:19:37] Brian: Okay. But still, you know, you gotta take what you can get. And, you know, the role of a magazine, it was S'S magazine. we'll give them a little, little shout out here. it's an 

[00:19:47] Troy: guy. Hustler. Total hustler.

[00:19:50] Brian: I didn't get to talk to him. It is, it's an F1. It's, it's about the culture around like F1. To me, it's like you have all these, monocle of X brands that to me are starting.

I'm, I'm, I'm doing a podcast, next week in Paris with Tyler Brule, from Monocle. So I'm gonna ask him about 

[00:20:08] Troy: Nice one on the rebooting show or something else.

[00:20:11] Brian: It's on the rebooting show. no, he is actually gonna sub in for both you and Alex, on people versus algorithm. We're doing it from the Monocle Cafe, which is very exciting for 

[00:20:22] Troy: Is Tyler Burle Canadian? I think he is,

[00:20:25] Brian: He is a, I'm gonna ask him if he knows you.

[00:20:27] Troy: yeah. Great. We all know each other.

[00:20:29] Brian: Yeah.but I think of them all, in that way, and maybe this is like, sort of what you're talking about is like, you know, the magazine itself is a signifier, and I talked about this a little bit with the, the, the spectrum folks. They're, they're, they're, they're publishing magazines every month. and it's a signifier in some ways, and it's a differentiator. its role as a d as a distribution, like mechanism for content is, is sort of gone. Right. But it's interesting that as these publishers become more fully, fully formed brands, right, that are expressed in many ways, that in some ways print still has, it still has a role. Late night TV I guess still has a role. 

[00:21:17] Troy: Yep. 

[00:21:17] Brian: It's just different. Alex looks bored.

[00:21:20] Troy: Yeah, he's bored. Let's move on.

[00:21:22] Alex: I mean, I, I dunno, I, I 

[00:21:23] Brian: Alex just had a, Alex just had a wave of, of jet lag that 

hit him. Did you, by the way, did anyone fall? Did 

[00:21:30] Alex: I just associated 

[00:21:31] Brian: Did anyone, did anyone fall asleep? Like at at that, at the event you were at, did you see anyone Just like dead asleep because that is a Japanese thing that like I've, I, I, always found I

would like, I would be like speaking and there'd be a guy like dead asleep, like front row.

[00:21:48] Alex: Was video games is much too exciting. 

[00:21:50] Brian: people are,

hyped up. 


[00:21:51] Good Racket
---

[00:21:51] Troy: what are we gonna transition this conversation into to keep the momentum up? Brian?

[00:21:55] Brian: I wanted to transition, it into your little adventures, Troy, into a good racket, because we've talked about rackets before on this and we've mourned. The demise of many of the great rackets of media. And really, you could argue media in the old days was just a series of rackets. But there are new rackets that always emerged.

This is capitalism. There's ways, there's ways to make money, there's shortcuts, available. And you went down a bit of a rabbit hole of a digital racket.

[00:22:30] Troy: Yeah, I mean, you know, I always like to say, Brian, that every good business is a racket of some sort, 

[00:22:37] Brian: right? Like sustainable, high level, high margins is I think what, you know, how you describe a good business and that's a racket usually underneath of it, there's something going on.Well, 'cause otherwise the economy would close down that margin. Right. 

[00:22:52] Troy: yeah. Right. So this one was kind of weird. I, I, I mean, I had been looking, I do love, I have noticed that, you know, any business that operates. a kind of online storefront that has, that's dependent on finding new customers. there's a huge premium on the level of sophistication. The team brings around performance marketing and all of the things around it, like not just media buying, but how you convince someone to spend money with you, how you sample the product, how you connect all your data sources up.

So you are doing a, a good job of managing your customer acquisition cost or CAC against the lifetime value of the customer. How you're measuring that accurately, how you're looking at retention and making sure that you get the most out of a customer, et cetera, like you can. I don't care whether it's a, you know, telehealth company or a lifestyle retailer, or. You know what, what, whatever it is, you know, these, it, it's not like you have a storefront that you welcome people into, or a giant organic promotional channel that you can use to sell your product or, you know, you're selling through Walmart. If you're selling direct, you gotta be really good at this stuff. And so I'm interested in it. And I'm also interested just in the math of the, like, the game, the mechanics of it. So I was, someone had said to me, or I was looking at a business doing cognitive assessments. And so any business like that, you know, you develop the product and then basically after that, you know, the, the only cost of goods you have is your cost of acquiring a customer. So as long as you're making more money than it costs to acquire a customer, they're pure in that regard, right? Like you're, you're looking at a kind of beautiful little mousetrap where you're, you're trying to extract enough money to pay for. To pay Google or pay meta or pay whoever is, is bringing you customers. So a friend of mine sends me a link to something. I think this is age old by the way, on the internet. It's not a new thing to a Mensa IQ test, Mensa. And this is from a company called My iq. So I took the bait. Everybody wants to know. It's kind of a good call out. Interestingly, in, in their promotion, they don't say How smart are you?

They say, how rare is your intelligence? the, you know, which means that, you know, everybody's smart in the eyes of their mother, right? Like everybody can be smart. So they do that. And then I, I like, I kind of nerded out on it and I deconstructed how they were bringing me in. And then I did the math on it to see how much money they could be making. And so I, I don't know if you want me to, I can describe how they play the game. I dunno, it's might just

[00:25:48] Brian: Yeah, I don't think it's,

no, this is direct marketing. This is not boring.

[00:25:52] Troy: Well, this is as pure as it gets. So the thing about online marketing is you can't ask people. Like, it's not like they're, you're someone's handing you a coffee. You can't ask for the money upfront. So you gotta give them something first before they're gonna give you the money. So what they do here is there's an ad they get you in and the first question says, do you like solving complex problems? Or, and you have three choices. Yes, no, I don't know, whatever. So you start there and then they take you into all these kind of quite graphic puzzles. And these puzzles are the questions that are, you know, gonna determine your iq. So there they tell you where you are in the process, there's a timer, you gotta get it done at a certain time. So there's a little bit of kind of. You know, personal competition and they, there's 30 steps. The puzzles are fun. You take them all, you get to the end, and you wanna know how smart you are, right? I mean, it's a IQ test and apparently, you know, the results are scientific and yada, yada, yada. So you get to the end and they have some clever, you know, language around why you should believe the results and, and, but you can't get, you can't get your iq.

You want your iq. I mean, that's why you did it. And so the only way to get your IQ is to give them a dollar. Now a dollar. Everybody will do it for a dollar. Well, here's the hook. You don't realize it, but when you give them a dollar, first of all, they'll only give it to you. They only give you the results via email.

So you have to put your email in, no, no biggie, right? You're gonna get the, to, someone's gonna tell you how smart you are, but what you don't really see is you're not just spending a dollar, you're signing up to a monthly subscription. It's like IQ SaaS. It's like 29 bucks a month for a bunch of cognitive tools and tests that you can have access to, but you don't really see that. So anyway, once you go to get your IQ score, they start hitting you with the upsells. Do you wanna buy 9 99, you know, cognitive tests, or do you want to take these puzzles that are gonna, you can do every day to make yourself smarter and all of this? And that's the racket. That is the racket in a nutshell.

So acquire them with the ad, engage them with a free test.get the result for a dollar. That's the transaction. Upsell you to buy a bunch of things. capture your data with an email and, try to, and, and, and they do lots of really cool subtle things like now that you've taken the test, they can say, Hey, Troy, question 15 showed a rare level of insight.

You were able to, you know, your cognitive skills are, are, are very, very special as demonstrated by your ability to answer question 15. So they do kind of tactics like that. I put the numbers together. I can put this in the email if anybody wants them. I put the numbers in and I'll, I'll, we'll send it out in the, in the email this week. But I said, what if you spend a million dollars. in media. And what if your, you know, cost per click, which is the sort of lingua Fran of this business, right, was 50 cents. And what if 10% of people, you know, got through the test or 5% actually? And what if 10% of those only? So that's a combined rate of half a percent when you times five by

10. What if they, you know, paid up? Right. And what if of those 5% bought the stupid 15, the $15 upsell for the cognitive tests, and what if only 20% forgot to cancel the subscription? 'cause they probably didn't know. Right? So like, 80% canceled, 20% stayed on. Well, as it turns out, if you spend a million dollars, you'd probably lose $800,000 in media.

Like you just wouldn't make your money back. But, but if you changed a bunch of those things, right, and you tweaked it, so it was like. 10% of people finished the test and 20% of those, you know, paid the dollar and they stayed on the subscription for, you know, three, two months instead of three months, or sorry, three months instead of two months.

And 30% of people did it anyway. The point is, is that if you make little changes all the way down the mousetrap, you could invest a million dollars and make a million and a half and you did it really well, you could invest a million and make 5 million, and if you invested $10 million in media, you could make $50 million. So what's interesting about these companies is. These people are extremely good at optimizing the, you know, the, the initial media buy, the engagement and then the harvesting and the company itself. One of the funny things was, is that the tests are signed off by Dr. Sarah Chen and Dr. Sarah Chen as it turns out.

'cause I went to find out, well maybe she's on LinkedIn, I'll say hello. Dr. Sarah Chen apparently is one of the most popular fake names on the internet. And so there's like Reddit threads on who is Dr. Sarah Chen, this mysterious non-existent person. And then you ask around and you're like, well, who made this test?

Who's the CEO of this company? And no one really knows except my dark arts kind of internet. People are like, yeah, it's some Bulgarian guy in London. And, you know, that's, that's the game. But, again. Interesting to, to deconstruct and figure out the things you have to do take someone who doesn't know who you are, get them to engage and then figure out how to sell them something when there's no human being involved. And that's most of online commerce. And what I've seen, and the reason that it's interesting to me is I've seen companies like, particularly recently 'cause an interest of mine and some, an investment I've been doing is, you know, well-meaning highly credentialed, medical people, right? Doctors and such, setting up online health businesses of some kind, whether it's like for, you know, hormone replacement or weight loss or any number of different, you know, biomarkers or any of these things. You get guys that are really good at the medical side, but don't understand the online distribution side and they fail. Because you can't do it without those, you know, without those skills. The skills of finding customers. And I think it's also applicable Brian to media because the offer construction in media to the transaction is you getting bumped out of the way with a paywall, right?

It's like, read this article, no you can't. Here's a paywall. Pay the money, but that's actually not gonna lead you to buying something very often. My observation is, the only way that that works for me is if I, if I'm so frustrated. 'cause I get so many links from Bloomberg that eventually I just get frustrated and like, okay, I'll buy it. Right? But like for the most part, the media business, certainly the one that I worked in, the subscription capability around magazines was prehistoric and. Even today, how we get people to buy a media product is just not very sophisticated. We put 'em up against the wall and say, no, you can't have this, and then look at this kind of page.

You can pay 19 bucks a month for it. I.

[00:33:35] Brian: But isn't this because the media racket was an unsophisticated racket based on magic, not on math. You know, like, I mean, direct marketers, like I, I, I, I started covering internet businesses that were like crazy, like in like 2000, the.com era. And then I went, when everything imploded and I, I, I wrote about direct marketing and I was like, oh, I understand this.

These guys are just math. Like they don't care, like direct mail guys. Like it was all just math. It was 

[00:34:03] Troy: Well, I, I would say it depends on the type of media, and there's a lot of lessons in this. In the magazine world, they gave away magazines at severely discounted prices because so much of the cash came from advertising in the television world. People wanted television, and they were sold by cable companies, and all the cable networks and broadcasters wrote on the back of that, right?

They did. They weren't direct to consumer marketers. And then Netflix came along

and they were actually pretty good at it.

[00:34:35] Brian: but this is the famous, like Mel Caran quote when he's, when he, met, Larry and Sergey and they debuted like they, and they showed him like what they were doing with Google. And, and John Patel had this in the opening of his, his very good book, the Search. and it was, and he said to them. You're fucking with the magic boys

[00:34:54] Troy: Yeah,

[00:34:56] Brian: and that's it. It's like, look, the, the internet rewards optimization, right? And I think the, the challenge I think you're, you're touching on with the doctors is anything that can be optimized, unless you put brakes on it, it's gonna be optimized into some disgusting place.

[00:35:14] Troy: pretty 

[00:35:14] Brian: know what I mean? Like, like, you end up, in a horrible place.

I feel 

[00:35:18] Troy: you end up selling, yeah. Weight loss drugs to babies or something, you know?

[00:35:22] Alex: I mean, I think, you know, a lot of the, 

[00:35:25] Brian: Alex, a lot of this is in gaming,

[00:35:26] Alex: yeah, I mean a lot of it came 

from com. I mean, a lot of this stuff just came from gaming, gaming and porn, right? Like all of these, all of these hacks,

because I think you have some of the most innovative yet ruthless peoples, but looking into that stuff and, the thing I always found interesting is, I mean, gaming, it kind of, it gets pretty, it's psychology, right? It's this psychology of like wants and needs and gambling and all of these things that are tying you into just one more thing or like, we're gonna string you in. So you, you then have some time investment in something and you're like, Ugh, it's only a dollar.

Just to finish this thing I thought it was, would be free. It's incredibly misleading, really dislike all this stuff. Stuff I always found interesting is that Apple can be so specific about what it allows you to do in its app, like down to the word, right? But a lot of these kind of dark patterns and because these are all dark, dark patterns, right?

With the, I think they put them in the same bucket as like hiding the close button on a thing that asks you to pay for the free app. totally allowed, totally fine. Totally fine. You know, they'll tell you like, you know, you're, you're here, here, here. Things you, here's a long list of things that you can and cannot do on an app.

But, it's incredibly easy to get misled, by an official iOS app, let alone on the web. I mean, you know, 

[00:36:47] Brian: Something. 

[00:36:48] Alex: find that this stuff is pretty despicable. I mean, 

[00:36:50] Brian: It's repulsive. It's repulsive, but it's also very admirable.

[00:36:53] Alex: Oh yeah. I mean, I'm sure, yeah.

[00:36:55] Troy: Well, don't hate the players, Alex.

[00:36:58] Brian: I mean, this is

what, 

this is the way the system, I, I personally like the sort of sweepstakes, casinos, the, the services that get around

any sort of like gambling laws by creating some kind of like dual currency system. I don't fully understand all the mechanics. but, You know, there's always going to be, this is just how the internet works.

There's always gonna be ways to, to find a sea. And I think a lot of times, you know, media has, has lost in that game. Like, I don't think that they're, you know, as fearful as they need to be to, to build internet businesses.

Like 

[00:37:38] Troy: Yeah, I'm reminded of this all the time. Brian and I, I highlight it for a reason because you can hate the game. But it's like the, the reason that Casper went bankrupt and Nectar sold for like a billion to $2 billion wasn't because Nectar made a nicer brand. and you know, Casper had fancy shops in soho and they did a great job building a brand.

It was because Nectar did a far better job of optimizing their funnels and doing online selling and had nothing to do with a mattress. so, you know, it really does determine winners and winners and losers online. And I've seen, you know, just a simple example like. I know a guy who sells a product online that has a $2,000 lifetime value, and he and his team will spend weeks and weeks optimizing the intricacies of conversion, which is what happens when you arrive on a landing page, and all the ways that you need to reinforce the purchase decision process, because if their conversion is higher than the next guy's conversion, they can spend more on acquisition and force the people out of the channel. Right. They can, they can own the first slug on Google,

right, So like this conversion mechanic, it's like, it's not just for scammers in, you know, like the, you know, dark arts, like Edge Lords. It's for, it's for all these online businesses,

[00:39:11] Alex: a whole conversion team at Airbnb. I've sat through a lot of these meetings and they're 

[00:39:16] Troy: they're good at it. 

[00:39:17] Alex: they're very advanced, very sophisticated. You're asking people to make pretty big decisions around travel. but as always, I mean, I think if it, if it's, it's very hard to regulate because some of these plan, things are so convoluted, that I would worry that, I would worry that with the internet becoming a harder place to make business, it just becomes like the ecosystem, that it emerges.

Is, is, is just this like,

I mean, I find it pretty quaint the way like traditional media companies ask you to subscribe to get the thing. I guess that's not the way things 

usually work. No.

[00:39:53] Troy: Well, actually in the old days, the obsession when I was hanging out with you in San Francisco, Alex, the obsession in early days of Facebook was how to find. And manufacture virality around network effects to create pass along between people to get them to sign up for services. It was a different type of acquisition.

It was typically free, and it was about growing your customer base extremely quickly by like doing what Farmville did to get people to like, share with their friends

and and connect the nodes on the internet. you know, it's, it's always been a bit of a, a thing that the people that are good at had a huge advantage at.

[00:40:30] Alex: Yeah. 

[00:40:32] Brian: Yeah, I was, I was talking to a, a guy who's at like a magazine company who had left media and gone to work for one of those online gaming companies for a little while. and he was like, the sophistication there compared to media is just vastly different,

[00:40:53] Troy: Yeah. 

[00:40:53] Brian: you know? And I, and that's, you know, challenge and opportunity I suppose we could say. 


[00:41:00] New York Times' Super App
---

[00:41:00] Brian: I wanted to talk real quick about this idea of the New York Times building a super app. our friend Dylan Byers, friend of the pod, see a friend of Bunny. He's a friend of the pod. We should have him on sometime. he had on a Meredith,Ian, the CEO of the New York Times. Meredith always gives a good, was a little bit of a frustrating interview.

She's, she's really good at what she does, which means that the interview never gonna be super revealing because she's the CEO of a publicly traded company. But you gotta, like, you gotta read between the lines. That's fine. She's hitting all the talking points about direct connections and direct connections and, you know, they're, they've got another, they've got this activist investor five span that we talked about. And I do think that it, it is worth discussing whether the New York Times can build this sort of Netflix of quote unquote news. Now the reality of, the New York Times business is that it has a ceiling for its news product, and that's why it's been building this bundle. Okay. It is building a lifestyle product really with news.

Yes. As part of it and, you know, at the center of it. But it's not, it's not going to. They're at 11.8 million subscribers now they wanna get to 15 million by, by 2027. They, they need to get people who are, who are subscribing for more than just news. So they've added the athletic, they, they have gaming, they have food. they brought their audio into their app. They keep trying these, these spinoff apps. And then it just becomes in the, the regular app, they're next gonna split out. They're gonna add their, all their short form video into some kind of gee or tick TikTok, like scroll. and it's stopped marketing, standalone news subscriptions altogether.

So they've got, they got the recipes, they got the games, they got sports. I'm interested in your view, Troy, about whether, you know, how big can the times get because it, it is a. It, it's, it's by far the most successful news company out there, right? it's growing at about like, you know, 10% a year, which is great in this market, honestly. but can it get to being like a massive 

[00:43:13] Troy: I mean this is, it's a story that's been told a lot and I think it gets as big as, you know, one thing they can't do is kind of depart from. What is the kind of foundational point of view of the media brand? So if you're not a New York Times person or don't see yourself in that brand, I think, you know, you probably don't want the product. Having said that, what's amazing about these times is that the lines, you know, we talked about the me media singularity a few weeks ago. The lines between media types have kind of disappeared. So the New York Times can be you, you know, can appeal to people that want radio, increasingly in their feed.

I think you'll see it more and more. It's a, it's a video experience. it's a kind of, you know, lifestyle experience via games and cooking as you pointed out. so I think that when you, when you, when you think about it as, a multimedia. Kind of news and lifestyle application. It can be, you know, it can appeal to a lot of people that just don't wanna read the paper. And, as such, I think it can be enormous. And the other thing I thought was really important, and I kind of a comment that Meredith made that was, you know, certain close to my heart, is that the thing that drives me craziest about kind of modern media in a digital age is how shitty the experience is.

And I know this has been said a lot, right? But like, you know, partly out of desperation that we had to layer a bunch of ads in it, partly that there was a kind of. Original sin of, of online media is that the, the, the ad model sucked and it forced you to do two things at once. And, you know, as a human being looking at an ad and looking at content, like all the, all paths led to this is a really lousy experience.

And I found that practitioners didn't pay enough attention to that. So what that always did is played into the hands of the platforms that made good experiences, first and foremost. Right. And they, they managed advertising appropriately and the apps were fast and they worked and they prioritized the consumer above the money and all that stuff. The thing that Meredith said is we have an enormous tech team of a thousand people, and the thing I will give them immense credit for is I love using their app. It works great. The New York Times apps just works. It's as close as you get in media, I guess, next to Netflix of an app that's on par with what comes out of a sophisticated platform company.

I think that that's gonna enable them to, to, to get closer to the, to that subscriber goal. 


[00:45:59] ChatGPT Pulse
---

[00:45:59] Troy: But, you know, Brian, if, if you're sick of talking about the New York Times, which I guess I, I I might be, the, the, the, the transition here is one that is news today, but, a recognition that, that in the, the sort of democratic world of online distribution where, you know, people have to seek you out and everybody has their own distribution channel, really building distribution into your product is so important. And I thought what OpenAI did today was really smart.

[00:46:34] Brian: What did they do?

[00:46:35] Troy: Um,they launched a new product today called Pulse. And Pulse is something that I've kind of wanted just to make on my own, which is something that goes out on your behalf, gathers information, knows what your paywall, to, knows what's in your email and what's in your calendar, and comes back dutifully, you know, every morning and gives you the goods. It comes back to you. It's an asynchronous product. So it gathers and gathers and gathers, I guess you would call it an agent. And it comes back and it delivers, you know, the goods that are, you know, depending on how many of your.your services you've authenticated with, like, I've authenticated open AI or chat GPT with my Gmail account, with my calendar, and with my Google Drive.

Now it's that much more personal

and it'll come back and I'll say, listen, every morning I want news on media and gaming and you know, this sports team. And it'll come back and it gives it to you in cards. And they've only opened it up to pro users. That's the $200 a month thing. But they'll, they'll open it up more broadly soon. but it's, it work?

I don't know, it's just came out today. I haven't

had time Well, until it, until it actually works. I'm not 

well, but, but, but, but, but, but, but a couple of things. Just look at where this is going.

It's gonna 

[00:47:57] Alex: It's gonna work. I mean, 

[00:47:58] Troy: of course it's, gonna it's it's not a hard thing to do, But but look at what's happening now. You don't go there. They come to you. And now the more data you put in, the better the product is that you get out Now it knows your interests. Now it's a little media gathering machine that works in your behalf. I mean, this is really powerful shit right now. It delivers 

the newspaper to you. 

[00:48:23] Brian: If and when it works. Yeah. Well, I mean, they tried agents. Does anyone? Okay, we've got three people on here. I'll say no. Have any of you used an agent that has actually worked? Have you ever used AI in an agentic capacity in which it has actually done a task on your behalf?

[00:48:43] Alex: I mean, I think doing it well, we're talking here. No, it's a no because, because that stuff is really complicated and I think, and I 

[00:48:51] Troy: I don't even know what the question is. Does

[00:48:53] Alex: Well, it, it's to use a, it's, it's a, just to do some agentic action, which, okay, let's define it. And I will say it's defined by having the computer do something for you that isn't just 

information

retrievement. 

[00:49:03] Brian: book. A flight 

[00:49:04] Alex: Well, I 

[00:49:05] Brian: a table. 

[00:49:06] Alex: but we're not talking about booking a flight here. We're, 

[00:49:09] Brian: What? the the Silicon Valley. People keep telling

me that it's gonna book, book flights for me. 

I 

[00:49:15] Alex: But Here's the thing though, Brian, what, what Troy is talking about will have huge impact on media. The Book of flight thing doesn't, is not required for that. It doesn't matter. And I think part of the conver, a lot of the conversation with AI, as we've said before, is just like we're, where it's like pie in the, in the sky shit, right? Like where, the, the agent stuff is what you need to really pitch to the enterprise that humans are going to be replaced. But in this, the, the, the set of capabilities that you have today, right?

I already asked my chat, GPT to go and fetch the news for me. I do a gentech type tasks now that it's connected to my Gmail. I just had it export all the trips I did this summer and it exported all the data. This is all like, I mean, is it a gentech? Is it, it's not going to book me a flight, but it's definitely doing stuff where it's connecting the dots.

[00:50:04] Brian: so what is the implications of this? Because, I mean, I got an email

from, from 

[00:50:09] Troy: The implications is it takes up more and more of your spectrum,

more and more of your 

attention, 

[00:50:14] Alex: You, you can be hidden behind a paywall and it will stake, still take over your interface. Does that make sense?

[00:50:20] Brian: yes, but like, so, but for like publishers, you're, you're still getting, having the paid relationship, but this is a typical thing of technology is layering the interface on top. And so you're basically 

[00:50:33] Troy: Either free or paid. Correct. Right. If it

authenticates all my paid sources even better. Great. And now it's gonna go out and it's gonna read the FT for me and just gimme the shit I'm interested in. And if later I want to go back and browse the ft 'cause it's Saturday morning and that's what I like to do, then I'll do that.

I'm not saying it's the only use case, but suddenly, you

know, Chachi T can come out and get my attention and do a bunch of the work that I otherwise would've done. And that's, you know, that's something that's just gonna soak up more and more attention.

[00:51:03] Brian: Okay, so who get, who gets screwed?

[00:51:05] Alex: I think new. I think news shows get screwed. I listened. I, I listened. there 

[00:51:10] Brian: I had news.

[00:51:11] Troy: Yeah. All of us.

[00:51:12] Alex: I mean, all of us get, get impacted somehow. Yeah.

[00:51:15] Troy: Yeah. All right. 

[00:51:17] Brian: I had a reader, lemme just, lemme finish this. I had a, I had a reader who sent, he's like, I don't know if this is good news or bad news, but I took your last like 14 newsletters I've been behind and I fed it into like GT five and got this like 400 word, like, you know, update on what you've been writing about and it was enough.

[00:51:34] Alex: You know what? But you know what I is that I think if you embrace this type of stuff right, it's kind of amazing that people can catch up, right? I think it's actually, that's a huge opport, that's a huge 

[00:51:46] Troy: Look at Mr. Silver lining over there. They cut up.

[00:51:49] Alex: I mean, I think I, I mean, I've, I've always been somebody that, liked getting my information like that, you know? And I think if you, you're not getting a clipping service. but also if you're running a little newsletter, you can recontextualize stuff for people. Like, I don't, companies like Substack are not particularly great at innovation.

But I think if I subscribe to a newsletter and I had a little catch me up button and it send me a, a, the first newsletter that says, here's what you've missed, here's what you need to know about this publisher, that would be great. 'cause a lot of this stuff I think there's, there's a moat.

There's like, there's a learning curve to understand the content that you're reading, et cetera. Like what is that person covering? And I think that could be interesting. These are the types of products we're not really seeing yet, but I, I think are going to be super interesting.

[00:52:35] Troy: in related, sort of product news, granola, updated granola's becoming an interesting app. So you probably know granola because it's a browser extension that records your Zoom calls 

for you. 

[00:52:49] Brian: it's creepy.

[00:52:50] Troy: Okay.

[00:52:51] Alex: I am using it right now.

[00:52:52] Troy: There you go.

And it can also, it's also an app that can record a conversation that you have or, you know, you know, you could u your mother could use it when she went to the doctor and it put, and it, it outputs these incredible summaries.

AI is really good at that.and now granola groups, all of your, all, all of your recorded information by the people that set it, like the individuals, the people, the companies who shared it with you. And it can also record phone calls, Alex,

which is pretty useful.

if Apple was smart, they would be all over these use cases.

I think the privacy thing stops them from doing it too

aggressively, but it's super useful, super useful,

[00:53:40] Alex: A hundred percent. Yeah. I mean, I think Apple is somewhat,you know, shackled by, by their privacy stuff. The thing is, they'll be able to do all, if not, a lot of this stuff, if not all, using just a onboard compute, right? So, that could be really interesting.

'cause that's all you, I mean, how many times a day, like the, the transformation side of this, of this technology is so close and it's kind of annoying that they keep pitching us. All of these, the agentic stuff, which might take a long time to work. You know, it's, I I see that as self-driving cars, right? But like, here we are, we, the, the good ana, Ana, the good, Comparison for that. It's like we were so excited everybody was looking at, at self-driving cars, but meanwhile we got auto braking. We got, you know, like all this kind of collision detection stuff, right? It, it, that was 10 years before, automatic driving, auto vehicles. And I 

think, 

[00:54:39] Troy: has saved me and I'm ashamed to admit it from no fewer than 10,

uh, accidents because I was texting when I was driving

[00:54:47] Alex: and I think we're at this level 

of, 

[00:54:49] Troy: all

the time. Yeah, it doesn't matter anymore 'cause it'll break for you.

[00:54:53] Alex: if you could, if you if you could 

[00:54:55] Brian: I don't think I have that. I don't think I have that in my Tima

[00:54:59] Alex: if you could talk to your AI instead of, instead of having to look at your phone, that would be even better. but I think we're at the stage now that there's so many cool, interesting products that you could build.

and it's just not there yet because I think the focus is on, on some other stuff,

[00:55:13] Troy: Well, 

[00:55:14] Brian: Is this good product? Is 

this a segway into good We're 


[00:55:16] Good Product
---

​

[00:55:19] Troy: I think we should start doing a bad product. Maybe like inkjet printers and bank fraud or like my broken espresso machine

that I have 

[00:55:27] Alex: IQ test.

[00:55:28] Troy: or my,

[00:55:29] Brian: Espresso machine. Espresso machines are always bad products. 

[00:55:32] Troy: no, I have a more soko, it's like beautiful product, but it's, it's

[00:55:35] Brian: I think, I think that they are a product that a lot of probably men particularly buy and then don't use that as 

[00:55:45] Troy: well that's wrong in my household 'cause we use it

every day. So, the new AirPods are cool. Apple was gonna sell a billion of those things, the new AirPods. I al I've also been testing out the translation thing, but I'm not gonna use AirPods as a good product. That's ridiculous. I

do like semi private pubs, Brian 

[00:56:02] Brian: so I can try it out. 

[00:56:03] Troy: PE people, people's bar in Manhattan, which is like, you have to know someone to get in, but it's not a, it's not a do a, a club with dues. I like this place people's, it's nice.

[00:56:15] Brian: Yeah. There's a guy out front. He was friendly enough.

[00:56:17] Troy: Yeah, right. He was friendly and you don't have to be like a card carrying member, but if you know like the dude that's an investor, like you can get in.

[00:56:25] Brian: Yeah. So 

anyone who wants to 

[00:56:27] Troy: But that's not my good product. You know, Mike, You know,

[00:56:30] Brian: a b sent you and you can get in.

[00:56:32] Troy: Right.I have had in the last two days, two, I don't even know what the right way to characterize the cuisine is. Mediterranean is the obvious catchall, but if you call it Israeli food, people are like, you mean

Palestinian food? You know, I don't need like a side order of culture wars with my, you know, humus.

But, there's a, there's a chain. You'll know it Brian, 'cause it's in, I think it's in Miami called Motech.

M-O-T-E-K. I went 

[00:57:02] Brian: Oh, yeah, yeah. I that, yeah. Yeah.

[00:57:04] Troy: Yeah. I mean,

I'm talking, it's, it's Israeli. here's what we're talking about. Okay. We're talking about like. You know, crispy artichoke, Carissa, spare ribs, crispy cauliflower, Moroccan cigars, you know, in addition to the, you know, the, the basics like shawarma, lamb and chick.

Just delicious. The best, 

[00:57:30] Alex: It's 

[00:57:31] Troy: to bull. 

Oh my god. Spicy Greek feta. What a great dish. 

[00:57:36] Alex: so, okay. I mean, we're keeping these as relevant as always right to everyone.

So if you're in Madison, 

[00:57:42] Troy: it just opened it just opened the Manhattan location on Broadway.

[00:57:47] Alex: And it's a chain.

[00:57:48] Troy: Well, there's about six of them. I

[00:57:50] Brian: Everything is a chain. Everything is a chain. You cannot have a successful restaurant that stays in a single location.

[00:57:58] Alex: think at 

[00:57:59] Troy: Alex, you 

just, that's the difference between you and Brian. He sees the narrative.

[00:58:05] Brian: You can't name a successful restaurant that has only one location.

[00:58:09] Alex: no, I get that Name. A chain that hasn't turned to shit.

[00:58:12] Brian: blame capitalism for that. And Troy's

my iq, 

[00:58:17] Alex: what? You know what? Tra travel the world and capitalism is doing just fine. Starbucks in Japan is delightful. 

[00:58:24] Brian: Oh, the Roastery is amazing there. amazing

It's, 

[00:58:27] Troy: It's good in Shanghai. It's really good in Shanghai

[00:58:29] Alex: Go to go to a McDonald's in Austria. I mean, I think if Americans saw like how brands were treating them here compared to the way they're treating everyone else, I mean, that could be, that could be a new outrage.

You know, like why is the French McDonald's so much nicer than than a, a McDonald's that we get 

[00:58:47] Brian: Do you think we just like Amer, do you think we just have like, low expectations or

[00:58:51] Alex: I, I mean, I think all these companies know what they're doing and I think that they will push to consumers to wherever they think they can be pushed. 

[00:58:57] Troy: I think, American consumers deserve better. Like they do, know, 

[00:59:01] Alex: why is 

[00:59:02] Brian: I, 

[00:59:03] Alex: why is that? I, 

I I really wish I knew. I really want to talk to like, people in these corporations that why is the local product from an American company worse than the product you get abroad?

[00:59:13] Brian: Well, you know, that we are speaking of Japan to bring it back in. they're opening Japanese seven elevens here, which is kind of ridiculous. It's like seven 11

in Japan is tremendous, right?

It's got all kinds of, like, you, it can eat three meals a day in seven 11.

And 

like honestly, they, they're great meals.

Like you,

you, you'll not be upset. And

[00:59:36] Alex: I had a rice mall, uh, for my flight, a Boston Rice.

[00:59:39] Brian: they're bringing, so they, it's a licensing thing to Japan and then they're bringing the Japanese version of an American convenience store back to

America. 

[00:59:49] Alex: Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think that's really interesting. I think that's gonna be great. I think, I don't know, I think we're going to see a lot of, a lot of these kind of brands like Starbucks falter because I think they're just not providing 

[01:00:02] Brian: Oh yeah, lockin. Lockin is coming. They, there's

multiple lock-ins opening within like two blocks of me in

[01:00:10] Alex: And it's not trying to be like fancier. It's actually weight, it's paired back. Right. It 

understands 

[01:00:15] Brian: bucks. Three bucks with the app.

[01:00:18] Alex: Yeah.

[01:00:18] Brian: Starbucks is going for, a $6 medium coffee and trying to make me order it in Italian, like, no,

[01:00:25] Alex: Yeah. That used to work no longer.

[01:00:30] Brian: you speak English here. Okay.

that's good. I gotta, I gotta catch a train. I gotta get to Poughkeepsie. 

By the way, Hudson Valley. Hudson Valley is a good product. Like you wouldn't know that. You're only like a couple hours north of New York City. Hudson Valley's like lovely. 

[01:00:43] Troy: I mean, you could have gone there instead of Florida if you weren't a tax ab.

[01:00:48] Brian: It's called efficiency. I'm at the Mohonk Mountain House, very, it's got a lot of like the shining kind of vibes. Stephen King Di was known to eat, Thanksgiving dinner here with his family.

I don't know if it impacted,his choices with the Shining. but yeah, there's a lot of ghost vibes in this place.


[01:01:08] Outro
---

[01:01:08] Troy: That's it for this episode of people versus algorithms where each week we uncover patterns shaping media culture and technology. Big thanks as always to our producer, Vanja Arsenov. She always makes us a little clearer and more understandable and we appreciate her very, very much. If you're enjoying these conversations, we'd love for you to leave us a review.

It helps us get the word out and keeps our community growing. Remember, you can find People vs. Algorithms on Apple Podcasts, on Spotify, and now on YouTube. Thanks for listening and we'll see you again next week.

All right.

I'm glad we did this.

[01:01:45] Brian: Thanks. Bye.



