PvA S4E161
===

​

[00:00:01] Brian: I did something interesting yesterday. I used my chat GPT to train my Gemini Like, help me create prompts so that Gemini, catches up to where you are. 

[00:00:11] Troy: I paused for a second, I thought like, that's a little rude what I'm doing right now. 

Yeah. 

[00:00:15] Alex: You know, it's like asking your assistants to compile all your files because you're gonna, you fire them, you know?

[00:00:20] Troy: I know a lot of people say you get better results from the chatbots when you like, insult it and yell at it and threaten it. I, can't bring myself to do that. it's like saying bad shit to my dog. I don't want to 

[00:00:30] Alex: I agree. I agree. 

[00:00:32] Brian: Well, you don't know how this is gonna go. I mean, this is one of those,

I don't know if God exists, but

like why risk it? 

[00:00:38] Alex: you're worried that in like 20 years, a, Schwartzenegger T 800 comes to you and say you were an asshole 

and 

[00:00:44] Brian: I remember you. 


[00:00:45] Welcome
---

[00:00:45] Alex: ​

So let's get going. We've got a lot to discuss today. AB is coming by, later. I've been having a lot of good back channel discussions with AB about, But you have chats with AB without us.

[00:01:06] Brian: Yeah, I do. I

do. we have we have a text back channel going. He's got some very specific talent, requirements that I'd like to go over. 'cause AB is a, he's fascinating to me.

because AB so High Octane, high agency and really ideal for this period of time. 'cause I think that is, that is the biggest competitive advantage that you have out there. 


[00:01:30] Aura and Lore In The Information Space
---

[00:01:32] Brian: But I wanna talk about other competitive advantages. and that really comes around to Aura and lore. and we can talk about it across a few different, spaces. But to me, you know, aura and Laura, matter so much in the information space because as we talk about a lot distribution no longer, privileges institutions, it really privileges main characters. That's why main character Energy is. it's so valuable now, and Aura gives that intangible sense that someone matters, that they have gravity and that they can, you can orient a, a narrative around aura and that, as we've discussed a lot, is so important and we're seeing this, play out this week. with the emergence of a main character like Olivia Nazi. You know, on the one hand we have, she is, you know, now a bet noir of sorts of the journalism industry because while there is this sort of saying that you need to seduce and betray, you're not literally supposed to seduce your sources. that was the case, I guess with her little sexting relationship with RFK Jr. Apparently she also perhaps had another relationship with a presidential candidate, uh, fringe presidential candidate, but he was still technically one Mark Sanford. you might remember him as the guy who went quote unquote hiking on the Appalachian Trail when he was having a dalliance with an Argentinian woman.and I believe she had a sugar daddy in Keith Berman earlier. again, she's a very controversial figure, but she's also made for this era. And I would actually make the argument that because today's media environment runs on these forces, that institutional media actually needs more people like Olivia Nazi, maybe not in this exact way, but they need people who ignite passions.

You see what happens 

[00:03:22] Troy: funny, right? It's like in a modern inversion of media mechanics, Olivia's bringing attention to Vanity Fair versus the other way around. 

[00:03:29] Brian: Right. And this is the weird thing that, that like there's, there's, there's a lot of hue and crying about this, and I get it. I, I like to clutch my pearls as you know. whenever I find gambling taking place in Casablanca, I'm scandalized. at the same time, I think that inversion is really interesting in that an institution like Vanity Fair almost needs Olivia Nazi more than vice versa. She'd be fine in this like, chaotic, decentralized information space. She's got, she's got main character energy and she can have a podcast, a YouTube, a substack, like she can make it work.

[00:04:09] Alex: But it's nice being part of a club, right? It's nice being nice. 

[00:04:11] Troy: Yeah, but it's funny, Brian, you just made me think that we moralize collectively that maybe she's, you know, crossed the line in journalism journalistic ethics, but privately we're gonna read that shit and that's all that matters. 

[00:04:25] Brian: Well, yeah, because attention is the currency and the best way to get attention, and we see this in politics, we see this in the alt-right sort of manosphere or whatever is you occasionally need to have people emerge as the heel. You know, you need to have shifting alliances. Everything has a kind of reality show feel.

I'm sure. Like Alex, you're closer to like the streamer world. I mean, I try to like stay, I

don't really 

[00:04:51] Alex: I'm, I, I, I get, I get down and the

[00:04:54] Brian: Yeah, this 

[00:04:55] Troy: streamer adjacent, adjacent.

[00:04:57] Brian: yeah, this

[00:04:58] Alex: the 

[00:04:58] Brian: this is like, I still, I see Kai Sanat like a appear and I'm like, I have

no idea who this person is and I don't wanna know who he is. 

[00:05:06] Alex: I didn't know who this person, Olivia Nazi was until I, I did a little research on the show notes. are we, can, can you, can you kind of bring me up to speed because I'm very fascinated by this story. 

[00:05:18] Brian: So she is a writer. Okay. And she's a political writer. She has flair and she is, she, she was basically, 

[00:05:26] Troy: She was a, like a, a media prodigy, I would say. She

yeah, I would say she is like a prodigy I'm usually distrustful of prodigies, but that's fine. she met Scandal, basically. and that came in the form of a sex team relationship with RFK Junior, Did it ever,

did it ever cross the lines from, you know, digital to physical?

[00:05:45] Brian: I'm unclear. You'll have to buy her book, her new book, which is out, to find that out. She has a little, you know, a makeover. She's got this glamorous, you know, comeback tour that she's doing. And she also has an ex-fiance, you know, 'cause you need different peripheral characters. And this, this is a guy called Ryan Lizza.

He used to write for the New Yorker. and he came out and I really enjoyed this. I have to admit, I don't know if you read it. He came out with a newsletter, you know, a post of his own about her that was artfully done. He's been sitting on a piece of information for years from their relationship in which at the end he basically, in a plot twist, he, he basically accuses her of having an affair with Mark Sanford, the aforementioned 

former 

[00:06:36] Troy: he serialized it. So there's more to come. 

[00:06:39] Brian: Yeah. No, it's tremendous.

It's this will retail. Well, I would've moved the paywall up personally, but maybe that's for, maybe that's for part two. 'cause this was just part one.

[00:06:48] Troy: Mm-hmm.

[00:06:49] Alex: Wow. Okay. 

[00:06:50] Troy: Did that

answer your question? Alex, she was scandalized and she moved to Malibu.

[00:06:56] Alex: Alright, well, 

[00:06:57] Troy: convertible Mustang

and she wrote a, a book, you know, that is sort of like, I don't know, how would you describe the book? What's it called? 

[00:07:08] Alex: tell all? Is 

[00:07:09] Troy: American Cantos. It's called Alex. And it's, it features, kind of beat poet style narrative and, a tell all about a character called the Politician Never named. 

[00:07:22] Brian: Yeah.

No, it's, it's a great way to, you know, because again, and this is, this reminds me of Michael Wolf. 'cause you know, wolf gets a lot of grief. Maybe much of it 

[00:07:31] Alex: I mean,

I mean, some 

of it. Some of it. Now, now, now, now especially, right. 

[00:07:36] Brian: Yeah. 

[00:07:37] Troy: Oh, he's, but he's, he's gotten grief for a long time. 

[00:07:39] Brian: He's gotten a grief and that's because he has main character energy. I actually really like 

[00:07:44] Troy: He says that his D duplicitous ways gets him in the room. 

[00:07:48] Brian: yeah,

his, his, his goal is to get in the room and his goal is to be also a, a, a participant slash observer. And this has a long history in journalism. I think a lot of the pearl clutching that's going on is a little bit. Disingenuous in some ways, because, this has always been a part of journalism, right?

I mean, on the, on the extreme you have this sort of gonzo journalism

of Hunter Thompson. I believe the field could use more of that. you know, look, almost Famous was a great movie for a reason. Like,

it's okay. Like, you know, and I think, you know, the, the profession is going through a lot of compression and a lot of changes. And to me, the question is. How are you going to compete within these systems that you do not control? There was this, you know, response to the Olivia Nazi, situation on Mediaite, and it was very well written and I was very sympathetic to it. And it was making the point that, this is the inevitable result, okay.

Of quote, unquote, this is what happens when an industry spends 15 years telling talented young journalists that personal brand is currency, that access is the game, that being a character in the story makes better content and then acts shocked when someone takes that logic. A few degrees too far, I'm sorry, quote unquote, the profession did not set these incentives.

The, the profession exists, which is by the way, an un credentialed profession. This is not the law, okay? It exists within a larger information system in which the incentives are set far upstream from the profession. 

[00:09:31] Troy: Is that true? Man? There's no code of journalistic ethics about how you

[00:09:36] Brian: Well no, there is a code of journalistic ethics, but that's totally different than the incentives being said.

This happens when an industry spends 15 years telling to talented young journalists. I would argue quite to the opposite. The profession has has, and by the way, it's in their interests to keep people from not being personal 

[00:09:55] Alex: I, I, I agree. I agree. I mean, if, I think, if anything, if you're a media brand, you don't want your young reporters to go out there and build 

[00:10:02] Brian: No, 

[00:10:02] Alex: own, like eight. No.

[00:10:04] Brian: you, you don't wanna give up leverage. You want them dependent on you for, health insurance. You know? 'cause they're

gonna get off their 

[00:10:10] Troy: Yeah. I I don't think that's how, how people think in media businesses. I don't think that's true. I think you assemble your, you know, a, a group of people that can help you build the brand and, you know, some of those are unnamed reporters and many of them are named, you know, personalities. I think that's part of the mix. It's always been that way. 

[00:10:30] Alex: And then you tell them to go on social media and go to those 

[00:10:33] Troy: Oh, no, I'm, I don't think it had the same sort of mechanics of amplification before. Right. Or an ability to, to, to, to, to kind of draw the discourse away from the media brand. But, you know, the brand of columnists inside of media brands is a longstanding

[00:10:50] Alex: what what I don't get is, and maybe you guys can tell me like if ever you want anything kept secret, why would you ever embroil yourself with any media personality or anybody who wants to be a writer? 

[00:11:04] Troy: Oh, it's, it's seductive Alex. 

[00:11:06] Alex: Really like, Hey, I'm, I'm a, can I insert myself into your life? I'm a person who makes a living by breaking stories.

That's insane. That's insane. 

[00:11:16] Troy: well, But you know. 

that, that's why you have to be good at it.

[00:11:19] Brian: The profession runs. 

[00:11:21] Troy: cozied up to, to, to, many, ad tech

[00:11:23] Alex: I mean, he is doing it with us. 

[00:11:24] Brian: I cozied up with Troy.

Yeah. 

it did not go the Olivia Nazi route. I look ethics matter, et cetera. but at the heart of the profession is something called seduce and betray. Right? And it's like a watch word.

And it doesn't literally mean that 

[00:11:44] Troy: Or,

or as Wolf would say, suck and spit.

[00:11:47] Brian: yeah. Suck and spit. You know, wolf just takes it

to, to an extreme. If you read those emails, I'm sorry, if you're scandalized by the by, by wolf, you know, being obsequious. I'm sorry. You might not be for this, this world, this, this, I, this does happen. I mean, come on. Like,

let's 

be real here. Do you know what I've noticed, by the way on this?

Have you noticed that the New York Times has not had any of those? We talked to 40 people inside Trump, and he's raging, and Jared and Ivanka are moderating forces. I wonder why that is. You know what, we've also not seen, we've not seen those beat sweetener stories about How about Jared and Ivanka? That's because that's the quid pro quo. Like this is just how it, it happens and like, it's like we're not supposed to like politely talk about it, but I think in this era where transparency is so important, like this is in some ways how the sausage gets made. There

are, there are uncomfortable like alliances that get made.

[00:12:46] Alex: but, but we're, you know, we're talking about Aura today and, and I think. Michael Wolf's aura has changed because he looks like he's kind of playing both sides a little bit. You know what I mean? And I think that if you're trying to build your personal brand as a writer, kind of exposing the lives of the rich and famous, but then you're exposed yourself as somebody who's like, you know, there something breaks at some point in the way people perceive you.

Right. And that's, it's really hard to maintain like this 

[00:13:15] Troy: Well, he is way past that personally. But,

but the, the, the, the question is, is who in this story gets hurt? Who in this story is treated unfairly? The

people that, well, the story of the, of the journalist that crosses the line. Does the audience get hurt?

[00:13:33] Brian: I dunno. RFK Junior hated the, the profile that she wrote.

[00:13:37] Troy: I, I read it. I didn't think it was like, I don't, I personally was never like a major like, fan necessarily. I mean, it's just preference.

I mean, the people that get hurt, Michael Wolf would suggest, are the people dumb enough to play his game? The audience wins.

[00:13:51] Alex: Yeah. I mean, it's hard at some point to understand like where the truth lies in all these things. Right? Does the audience really win? I think it's entertaining and I think it becomes entertainment, but at some point, like I am, I'm getting pretty confused as to who to trust as a consumer of this stuff.

[00:14:06] Brian: Right. Well, this, this is also where narrative trumps like facts, right? Like Wolf identifies as a writer, not as like a reporter because he is, he's a writer, and a writer's feely is to the integrity of the narrative. The story has to be true.

[00:14:24] Troy: Mm-hmm. 

[00:14:25] Alex: right.

[00:14:25] Brian: that doesn't mean that like, you know. You go down a checklist.

This isn't like, this isn't the, the associated press.

[00:14:33] Troy: I mean the story of the triumph of narratives triumph is, is, is over is. I thought we already, we already did that on the podcast and decided that was the case.

[00:14:43] Alex: Yeah, 

we called it.

[00:14:44] Troy: Yeah, 

we 

called it and we've called many things, but we did definitely call that one.

You make a list of the things we called Brian,

[00:14:52] Brian: I haven't, but we could do that for the newsletter. cause we're very early,

on a lot of these things. Um,

[00:14:58] Troy: We called the singularity before de Derek Thompson. 

[00:15:01] Brian: but I think this is one of those things, my question is like, how does, how does the institutional media world compete in this kind of environment? Right? Because it's been compressed to such a degree. Tina Brown had a, had a great interview in the New York Times talking about this, about how. You know, not to put words in her mouth, but basically the institutional media world has become boring. Like it does not take risks. It doesn't have the kinds of characters that it had. That's why there's this nostalgia for the swashbuckling era of, of glossy magazines and the bar cart rattling around on, on Friday afternoons. There's not even like a Nick Denton really out there. So, I'm open, I'm open to to, to this.

I'm not saying that like everything needs to be in this vein.

[00:15:52] Alex: Hasn't this happened across media though? Like, I mean, we used to have rock stars, you know, throw TVs out of their hotel room. You know, like 

[00:16:01] Brian: Yeah. Look, Oasis is selling out stadiums for a reason.

[00:16:05] Alex: Right, because they're a bunch of scoundrels. We need a little bit, yeah. We need some of that scoundrel energy back.

[00:16:12] Brian: Okay. 


[00:16:13] Gemini 3
---

[00:16:13] Brian: Should we move on to the scoundrels of ai? 

[00:16:15] Alex: Yes, please. 

[00:16:17] Brian: Okay. 

[00:16:18] Alex: the new Gemini?

[00:16:19] Troy: I have.

[00:16:20] Brian: I haven't, no, but it's getting great reviews. This is Gemini three. the narrative on Google has completely inverted. It is no longer, hapless and playing catch up. Sergey, Bryn roller skated back on set, got everything, up and running, and now they've got a new model release that like we're hearing from the AI influencer crowd has made them weep or something.

the weights will come out and I think we will then determine that Google is again in the lead.

what's going on here? 

[00:16:58] Troy: I have my Gemini tab open inside of the Chrome browser next to your photos. 

because I'm in, I'm in. Yeah. Well, I'm in the, the Riverside interface and I just said,

[00:17:08] Alex: oh, did you just call our video feed of photos?

[00:17:11] Troy: No, you're, you're sorry you

[00:17:12] Brian: It's like a senior moment.

[00:17:14] Troy: Anyway, I asked you, it was, and Gemini called

[00:17:17] Brian: You're not sun setting are you?

[00:17:20] Troy: Gemini correctly identified the three of you. Good news and ident. 'cause you know that it is a multimodal engine and it's really good at that. And it identified you, as a co-host Alex and a, design polymath and technology executive.

[00:17:35] Alex: Did you pro, did you feed it anything or did it 

[00:17:38] Troy: No, I just said, who are these guys?

[00:17:39] Brian: Technology 

executive 

[00:17:41] Alex: terrifying

[00:17:42] Troy: And it said that you're CEO of human computer. It said nice things about

Brian too. He's a well-known media expert and author of the rebooting newsletter. 

[00:17:50] Brian: author. 

[00:17:51] Alex: Hmm. Author? 

[00:17:53] Brian: What about B2B influencer? 

[00:17:55] Troy: it did. It didn't get that part. 

[00:17:57] Brian: yeah, web webinar Maven. I had a great one yesterday.

[00:18:00] Alex: I'm sure, I mean, you at this stage, you're just like, 

[00:18:04] Brian: No, seriously, it was great. 

[00:18:05] Alex: it's like, it's like standup. You're just becoming so great at it. 

[00:18:08] Brian: what's the takeaway here from, because it seems to me like I, again, I go back to like narrative, right? But it, you know, the narrative has,

has shifted from, you know, right now open AI is going through, its, its period of, there's a lot of doubt. They keep stepping 

[00:18:26] Troy: Yeah. I feel the doubt, Brian. I would, I would, I would add only this is that there's an in, there's always been an intimacy between a human being and their tools, and when you start using. Something like Chatt, PT as part of your daily routine and how you digest stuff and write stuff and think about stuff and all of that stuff. it becomes hard to leave and it, you know, obviously memory is the killer moat here, right? And. In my chats with chat GPT, it knows that I have a podcast. It knows that we work on writing once a week. It knows the investments I'm making. It has all of that memory. So I find that extremely useful. And then I go over to, to Gemini and it's, it's seems to me to be quite precise and it's really good with imagery, it's really fast and its responses to, to my queries are good, but it's, I, I'm lacking that intimacy.

So Alex started out the episode saying that he asked chat GPT how to move everything over to Gemini, which I think is really smart because there is that, like I don't kind of wanna leave Chachi PT 'cause I got 40 projects in there.

but, but I really like. I really like Gemini, and it's, it's really useful.

The other thing that it opened my eyes around is we think of what things in certain ways because of the technology we use principally among those things are webpages and I, IIS well, I've spent a lot of my life making webpages. I've done it with Alex, I've done it in company, you know, like webpages and systems to make webpages. And what this new feature, I don't, I forget what it's called. I don't know. It's part of their sort of agent or coding capabilities. But

[00:20:20] Alex: you can ask Gemini, like, we think of chatbots as giving us text back, right? You can ask Gemini, a

[00:20:28] Troy: question and it'll, it, it will make a webs an interactive website for you

to 

answer 

[00:20:33] Alex: generat generative ui. It's, it's called 

[00:20:36] Troy: Generative Eli, thank you. So, but the, the concept is kind of bizarre, right? It's like the answers to your responses, you know, in the future will be all kinds of things. And now it's showing us that it's not just text, it's experiences, it's digital, you know, multimedia, digital formats, and it's pretty wild, right?

It makes you think about, think differently about the web. I. 

[00:20:58] Alex: sometimes I find these like AI narratives that the, that the tech press and the media press is pushing out a little bit. Like when I read a car magazine and somebody's telling me while BMW is fractionally better because the brakes are better than the Mercedes, and then I step into the car and I don't notice a difference.

Not that I'd buy A-B-M-W-A Mercedes, but you know what I mean? Like, I think when like car enthusiasts talk about cars, 90% of the shit they say doesn't matter. And then you sit down and you just want, you just want a comfy seat and a nice stereo.

[00:21:27] Brian: and then I get into my Altima and I'm like, I don't understand why 

[00:21:30] Alex: Exactly. You just want CarPlay to work, right? the thing that I think is important here is that, the audience that matters is really not like people are gonna see like, Hey, Gemini is 20% better at this, and now chat, GDS gonna start shedding its 800 million weekly active users, right? I think the, the people's behaviors are really hard to change.

there's a lot of reasons why I like chat. GPT, it has a better Mac app, for example, and that stuff. But here's the audience that I think it matters for, is the people that are pumping money into chat, GPT and the narrative used to be like, they're three years ahead. They're three years ahead. They're no longer three years ahead.

And like the, the 5.0 release, the five point wire one release, has, has that, that stuff like has evaporated with Gemini three. If you look at it, Claude is better at coding. Gemini is better, at, at stuff like creative writing and with its interfaces, they're all constantly going to catch up with each other.

But what this probably tells investors, or it makes the decision a little bit harder to look at where. Where chat GPT is going to make its trillion back. but Google's definitely got its groove back. I mean, Gemini is very good. They're, they can start flipping switches and integrating into, you know, a billion Android phones, you know, billions of users on Chrome Gmail, the workspaces, all of that stuff.

I mean, that's a massive, massive amount of surface area that they, that they have. On 

top of that. they're the only LLM right now that is running on non Nvidia chips. They run all that stuff on their own chips, which is crazy. They've been investing, investing in these chips for 10 years, so they're sitting pretty.

But this is not the leap that's going to make it. We're not going to see these kind of like web 2.0 moments where all of a sudden like a similar app just like takes over because it's so much better. But what this does tell me is like, wow, chat GPT is a much harder investment today than it was like a year ago.

You know?

[00:23:22] Troy: yeah. You can see some of their actions through that lens. I think. I think you're right, Alex. I think in some ways, deep down they're worried and, the age old methods for creating long-term engagement are clearly on their dance card, right? So the idea of adding communication to chat. Is important because communication is the stickiest thing that you can build as a, as a network. you know, playing with ideas like Sora so you can create more immersive, expressive formats in a feed. Important, right? what else have the added pulse was another example where if they can get into a daily kind of routine with you, where they summarize your information. Also very important for engagement. The sexy stuff they're doing by allowing you to have, you know, sexy parasocial relationships with the chat bot. Important. And then overarching is all of the deals they want, they wanna do. So their success becomes part of the success of the ecosystem for energy, for chips, for data centers, et cetera.

Become another, another sort of hedge against, the Goliath that they're up against, which is Google. And when you look at Google, they have. First and foremost. Yeah. They have chips. Yeah, they have servers. They're really good at cost efficient, cost effective or cost efficient delivery. But it's the monetization that they're really good at. And, you know, they're gonna be able to turn, AI into, attention marketplace much quicker than, than than OpenAI is gonna be able to do. And

[00:24:57] Brian: Well, I can't, they, I mean, isn't it, I mean, they can also pour money from, you know, they have the best economic engine ever created as is constantly told. And so they can pour their own cash flow into buying, compute and all the infrastructure necessary.

Not only can they invest in this, but they, they can apply it to their, their ads business and generate even more revenue.

And that kind of flywheel seems very difficult to compete with, for open ai.

[00:25:24] Troy: Yeah, and I look at these things personally, like I try open AI's browser and I see how long it takes me to ultimately gravitate back to Chrome. And so I, I think that the barriers and the moats are, are, are enormous and

[00:25:37] Alex: But even there, every other browser you tried was running on Chrome, 

[00:25:41] Troy: Yeah. Yeah. But that's, that's not the interface that's just the engine underneath. No one knows that. No one sees that. 

Like,

[00:25:48] Alex: bet everything still defaults to Google for most of of the time. I mean, I think it's, this is definitely a sign that the market's overheat it and, and I think we could see Jet GPT open AI evaporate because just the money faucet starts coming through.

Like, 

I mean, I 

think that's the, that, that's the thing. Like you've, you had the Chinese AI stuff and now you have Google showing like, and you're kind of saying like your lead, like on coding. I mean, anthropic actually is, is beating everyone on coding and is the one that's selling the most, into these, into these codes.

And now we're seeing kind of Sam Altman kind of freak out. They say, okay, well, we'll turn on the point, switch, all of that stuff. None of this like, Sora, none of this. Is it trillion dollar or a hundred billion dollar business? Even it, it's just this amount of money burn is, is crazy. And, and what is this showing?

Is just that like, yeah, people are maybe attached to their chat, GPT, but I, I think they need to start like figuring out how they're gonna make money.


[00:26:47] Financializing Aura
---

[00:26:47] Brian: Okay. On that note, I wanna bring in anonymous Banker ab. Welcome.

[00:26:52] AB: Thank you. 

[00:26:54] Brian: Let's talk about Financializing Aura. We were talking earlier about Olivia Nazi and this, soap opera that's going on. And personally, I think. It can be a good thing for the media industry because what I see in the information space is that Aura and LO is incredibly important and at the heart of that is, is leveraging this parasocial relationship that audiences end up having with creators that they just don't have with faceless institutions. And I think the question ends up being is when there's so much leverage in being a personality or an influencer and basically an emotional object is how you end up turning that, how you end up monetizing that. I wanna, I want your take on how

to monetize Aura. 

[00:27:43] AB: sure. 

I mean, especially this parasocial. Relationship that some of these creators are able to create. I think it can only live on certain mediums. So like audio, podcast video, if it's a, like a vlog, right? So it's not just having a show on YouTube, but it's when it's like in your face and it's almost like when the Paul Brothers first started out, so much of that was like a day in their life.

And then newsletters, and then you see extensions of continuing that pair of social relationship with like certain things like the how long Gone guys do the tour where they take their podcasts on the road and the people are in the audience. So it's like events. I think where things start to get a little bit different. It's like, we're Mr. Beast, where you, you in the news, there's this, thing that he's creating or I think it's basically he's just licensing his name in the Middle East where they have this amusement park. that's not, I, I don't think that's actually monetizing the Parasocial component. It's purely monetizing his brand.

Right. 

[00:28:41] Brian: It's the Forbes, it's the Forbes Playbook.

[00:28:43] AB: Exactly. And so there's there, because what's interesting is you can only, I think, monetize so much in the parasocial, and it's almost like, why are you, because it's like a friend, it's a fake friend. It's like, why are you giving your friend more money than you, besides like the newsletter subscription?

Or maybe you buy some of their merch. like at some point you can only monetize it to a certain extent, and then you have to leverage that to move these people to try to buy things, but more on the, the brand that you've created and not on the relationship that you have. so I think certain people, depending on the size of their audience, can do it really well.

I'm surprised that Mr. Beast hasn't leaned more into a couple areas that it would seem that would tie really well into his audience, like casual and social gaming. but you've seen him do it at scale with the feasts, right? So everyone learned about feasts through him, and then now it's just become a mainline product that's sold at Target and Walmart. I think it's really tough though to make massive businesses that are purely parasocial. 'cause there's a limit to how much you can charge people 

[00:29:41] Troy: I mean, is that true though? I mean, didn't the Kardashians, aren't they the OG Parasocial media brand? 

[00:29:46] AB: in terms of what Monet you're talking about like skims or what?

[00:29:50] Troy: I mean, there's, there's more than skims. There's, you know, skims, there's makeup, there's, each of them have their own brands. you know, I would argue they've taken that name and, you know, monetized in 10 different ways, 

[00:30:02] AB: Yeah, but the point I'm making is the re reason why people are buying the makeup is they learned about it through Kim Kardashian or one of the other Kardashians. But it became a brand is, it's not a, it's not because of the Parasocial relationship. It's more that they're a brand name, a household name that got awareness, that got free press and it turned into something else.

It's not based on the back of the, the Parasocial relationship.

[00:30:27] Brian: right. 

[00:30:28] Troy: I think it's absolutely the parasocial relationship. it may not be as intimate as, you know, something you're feeling for a, a YouTube creator that you invest in hugely. Or a newsletter writer, but. We we're connected to the personality. We believe they know them.

We understand and, and, and, and, and dive into the social dynamics that define their lives. And that turns into commerce. That's the definition of Parasocial, Like you, you feel like you're connected to the, to the

personality. I mean, what's the difference between a Parasocial relationship and an age old kind of fan-based one that rooted in celebrity? 

[00:31:11] Brian: I think the parasocial relationship feels more like tangible, like I would put the Kardashians more, they're more in the celebrity bucket. I'm like making this up on the 

[00:31:19] Alex: but it's, but it's, 

I do think, like it's, it's a definitional problem, right? There's this, okay. Is the Parasocial one, like the super fans who, you know, joined the Discord and kind of really feel that they have this relationship with you? Or is it much broader than that? That there's this new kind of relationship with celebrity that allows you, like, like the, you know, like the, the Smartless guys, right?

I think the Smartless guys launched a telecom of Parasocial. Relationships. People think they know them. Oh, that's such a yada yada thing to say, right? Like, I don't remember what their names are, but these are, I think it's just the relationship with celebrity has, has, has changed. Like Ryan Ren Reynolds with Mint Mobile is constantly kind of playing up his parasocial relationship with you.

He brings his mom on the ads. He's like talking to you like you're his friend, like you know him. Right? unless we're defining it differently. 

[00:32:14] Troy: Right. So by that sort of characterization, the difference between celebrity and parasocial is celebrity is someone that we adore, that sits out there like, they're sort of untouchable versus a parasocial relationship that we actually get much deeper and think that we understand their, their world, their motivations, their personality, their quirks better. We're more connected in a kind of, you know, fake personal way. Is that the difference?

[00:32:44] Brian: I think, so to me, like celebrity, and I think that we're gonna see the pendulum swing back towards celebrity

is it's unattainable, 

right? Like you, you don't have constant access to like a celebrity and, and that creates the scarcity. Whereas I feel like, and, and maybe it does go back to the Kardashians and reality TV is giving people access 24 7 to celebrities dilutes that, mystique, that takes away the aura 

[00:33:15] Troy: Yeah, it's like reality TV was the connection point between celebrity and parasocial. 

[00:33:21] Alex: I do agree that I don't think that the Mr. Beast theme Park is, is an example of monetizing parasocial. Relationships. I think that's like a, a pure brand deal because he reached that scale. I think Parasocial is hard to do, right? I think like Ryan Reynolds probably did it well with Mint Mobile, but as he's a very specific type of character, but I don't think that celebrity is coming back and you can, you can see that like today with, with, I think Timothy Chalamet is somebody that's really good at, at turning marketing into prior social relationship building, right?

He's everywhere. He's very genuine. Meanwhile, Brad 

Pitt gets an ex. 

[00:33:57] Troy: the fake pitch meeting that he did

[00:33:59] Alex: Yeah. I mean he, he's just trying shit out. Right? And it feels, even though it's not, nothing is genuine. It feels genuine. Meanwhile, you look at the kind of like the, the last few remaining kind of idols, right? Like the Brad Pitts of the world.

I think that that stuff is kind of like, you know, dwindling, that pure kind of personality brand is dwindling and para socializing. Your personal brand seems to be kind of like an important part of what to do.

[00:34:23] Brian: Yeah, I think Shaima iss an interesting bridge character in that like he is a new style celebrity, who is very fluent. In the sort of new methods of Parasocial connection. You know, I think it's, it resurfaced, at least in my feed, this speech he gave at the SAG awards, back in February where he earnestly said how he wants to be one of the greats.

You know, and I, I have this like working theory that being, that being like genuine in your ambition is like the new sort of punk rock. It's like we're, we're post irony now and like being sincere is actually cool, is gonna be cool again. And, I think he's, I think he's got an innate feel for, for what works in this environment. 


[00:35:08] John Malone: Last of the cable cowboys
---

[00:35:08] Brian: But let's move on, on to another topic I wanted to get a's take on, which, is John Malone? John Malone is like the last of the cable cowboys really, remarkable career. And I found it perfect that you had surfaced the city. He did. He did a long interview with none other than Charlie Rose, who I guess the statute of limitations has expired on Charlie and he is, he's back,with his, his own YouTube, channel.

whether it's too soon or not, that's not for me to say. ab you must admire John Malone, right?

[00:35:44] AB: Yeah, he is great, but I mean, it's, everyone should, it's an hour and 40 minutes so you can speed it up, but it's, he goes through and 

[00:35:51] Brian: It's okay. You can also watch it. It's

[00:35:53] AB: Yeah. Yeah. He go, I mean, it's, it's helpful to have someone who has so much context and so has seen media through these different evolutions and can talk about, what the platforms have done to media and taken a lot of the value out of it, and he makes this point that. You know, the struggle at Warner Brothers is the debt, and it effectively means they probably just, they, they paid too much. and there's too much value put in, in the different transactions when they combine the company to make it is what it is today, and there's just not enough value that they can achieve in the near term that makes it sense to continue running the business in a steady state.

And that's why they're exploring strategic alternatives for the company. And, and the sad thing is like. Because this is like a, no one really ever talks about this in detail, but streaming today, like Disney streaming platform, all these different streaming platforms, the market rewards them right now for effectively not losing money.

Right? And 10 years ago, if you said, oh, the market's gonna reward a cable channel for just being breakeven, people would say You're crazy. And so as we've gotten into this new world where it's harder to get consumers to sign up, it's really expensive cable. You know, it used to be hard to, to cancel it, you would have to sign up for a year.

And those customers were so much more sticky. It's like we're just, it's not a new paradigm, but in the last few years, it's like what media companies have to do to get the audience and to monetize it has completely changed. And I think John Malone has always been ahead of his time. Right. And allocated capital.

There's a unique thing in that John Malone's. In Colorado, right? He's not a Hollywood person, he's not in New York, but he is basically efficiently allocated capital ahead of trends to either build infrastructure or to buy media companies before they got more valuable. And then there's the other part of a, like a lot of what he's done and he's been the master of this, is all of the transactions that he structures are meant to be tax efficient.

So there's like, conversations about tracking stocks and all these different things besides Malone and Liberty, there's very few companies that utilize some of these different methods. 'cause it's sometimes hard to explain to the market. But he's been able to do it really efficiently, where they're doing different transactions to purely save on taxes and it saves a lot of money and it drives value to shareholders.

But they'll have investments in different publicly traded entities, like in six different publicly traded entities with another six different tracking stocks purely to save on taxes.

[00:38:21] Brian: This is the kind of spreadsheet aura we can all get behind.

[00:38:25] Troy: Well, there's a couple other Aura items here I want to add, you know, it really is interesting ab to, to see it as, eras, And if you read the book Cable Cowboys, which came out, I don't know, at least 15 years ago

or 10 years ago. Yeah, really good book. you can see the, you know, the profound effect that, you know, it started with antennas on hills to create, you know, service coverage inside of small markets.

And then they started wiring up the whole company. And that was obviously the foundation for the internet, but one change to the country. If you want to compare eras. John Malone and his cohort changed the country with wires and that created enormous profits. And the next generation created it with network effects and the incredible businesses that were born of.

Low content costs, hyper efficient technical platforms and network effects that kept people connected and kept others out. There's another important era contrast that I think is really interesting in ORIC is if that's the right term, Brian

Ted Turner and Joe Malone, John Malone, that are part of that cohort. They bought tons of land and they wanted to make the earth, they wanted to preserve the earth for, you know, hunting and fishing and you know, the glories of the animal kingdom, whereas Musk and Bezos wanna leave the planet. and I, and I think that's a nice contrast,

[00:39:48] Brian: a narrative perspective, if I may, it's sort of depressing, right? I mean, like, we had these, these, these guys were swo, like swashbuckling, you know, and we're left now with David Ellison, really. I mean, some like rich kid's son who's just gonna take all this ai chip money and just overwhelm the capital.

Like this is a different ball game than being a, a canny capital allocator, in Denver, 

[00:40:21] Troy: There's, there's another point too, Brian, is that John Malone wanted desperately to own CNN, and Ted Turner was his buddy, and he would've loved to get CNN into the liberty,universe. But Ted wouldn't do it because of politics. Ted didn't like John's politics. Ted was a liberal, married to Jane Fonda, 

[00:40:41] Brian: Yeah. Hanoi Jane. I mean, come on.

[00:40:44] Troy: y you know, John Malone is a libertarian with a kind of scientist's mind.

[00:40:48] Brian: Yeah, he, well, he's rebranding as an Altus too. I, I found out during that interview, the hip thing to do. Should we get onto good product? ' cause I know Alex has a hard stop.

[00:40:58] Alex: I usually do.

​


[00:40:59] Good Product
---

[00:41:01] Troy: Well, I can start good product with a personal essay about a product that annoys me, and then I can get into good product. 

You had asked me, Brian, to look at why I was so annoyed by Apple News 

[00:41:14] Brian: Oh yeah.

[00:41:15] Troy: and and so, you know, I thought Apple News maybe shows us why we should love the web and, and why we'll miss it.

But, we all like that. It's a sort of clean environment and a kind of interface on media that doesn't, you know, commit extreme acts of monetization violence that you find elsewhere on the web. y you know, but my browser is my operating system. That's where I spend my time. And it's, it's connected by search and my communication tools and, you know, shopping stuff and service applications.

And increasingly, AI and Apple News asked me to abandon that in exchange for something less chaotic, admittedly. But it asked me to abandon that and go to their interface, which is slow and clumsy and bad and disconnected, and that annoys me. And the newsletter, boom, already asked me to spread my news attention to my inbox, right?

And I, I don't, I don't want another surface. So I got the web, I got apps, I got my inbox, and now I gotta go to Apple News. So that's the first. You know,

grievance. The second one is, is the curation on Apple News Confounds me. 'cause it, it weaves together this outdated like, issues based organization construct that came from the magazine days.

Like, I'm gonna read an issue of Fortune Magazine. Stop it. I'm never gonna do that. And, and then these fake and ineffective for you. Shitty personalization chunks. They don't know what I like. They're really bad at that. Right. And then they mingle in top stories and these sort of arrogance of apple powered editor picks.

I want someone from like the Infinite Loop giving me editors picks. No, I don't. They don't know what they're doing. And, and then they cross. So they've got like all these different paradigms. They got issues they got for you. They have news, they have editor's picks, and then they have topics like education and health.

You should be shot if you group content by education, health or technology. That's not how it works anymore. Right. And so, and then my, my next beef is the game section. I like that you actually made a game section 'cause I like the games, but your crossword puzzles are dumb and it really shows you that like games lack that sort of cultural craft, that real games makers, the people at the New York Times make to make their games fun.

Your games are dumb games. So edit the editorial layer on games is actually really important. Finally, finally, and probably most egregious is it's meant to be a bundle that includes things like the Wall Street Journal and, and, and Bloomberg. The problem is they neuter to the Wall Street Journal, so they give you a tiny bit of it, and then Bloomberg, like they, they constantly show You see Bloomberg links, but all of them are pay walled on Apple News. So it's kind of this bait and switch. I'm not getting Bloomberg now. I get it. It's like 10 bucks a month. You can't fit all of that into 10 bucks a month. And, and, and Bloomberg has widely said no, that we're, you're not gonna be the substitute for a real, genuine first person Bloomberg subscription, but it just means that there's a lot of dead ends in, in the thing.

So to me, it feels a little like a OL after the web showed us why open is better and. I'd make more use of it 'cause it's a cheap bundle of stuff that I sometimes look at. if it was more connected to my media world, rant over.

[00:44:50] Brian: So I wanna, I wanna get to Alex on this, but I also wanna just point out a depressing, fact, all of what you say I agree with. also, apple News is unbelievably successful. it has about 125 million people monthly using it across us, uk, Canada, and Australia alone. it has added users every year.

One estimate, put it at reaching 200 millions. We'll see. and. This is another example of how distribution is everything. It sort of reminds me of how Apple made iTunes like terrible for so long and it didn't really matter. Same thing with Apple Podcasts. It had, you know, complete control of podcasting and yet, the, the Apple Podcasts, software sucked. so I don't know, a and

[00:45:36] Troy: I, I think, I think Alex likes Apple News. Isn't that? Do you

[00:45:40] Brian: do you,

come on. Anytime I. 

see one of those links, I get depressed

because I'm like, oh God, this is I, I, I

[00:45:46] Alex: 100% agree with you, Troy. I think you have, you hit the nail on the head. It, it slowly crept up on me. And, and it, you know, my wife asked me if we, if we were getting the New Yorker with the Apple News, and I said, I think so. And then I had to look at some magazine interface, but then we couldn't find the article.

For some reason, I get fed like UK car magazine content for like voxels, like I can, 

it's it, yeah. No, it's, I, it's, it's a terrible product. And Apple, you're right. Apple does that. There's, I mean, the power of owning the operating system, right? Which is why it's gonna be so hard. You know, we were talking about chat GPT before, it's gonna be so hard to break into that, space for others, especially now that it looks like Apple's going to do an AI deal with, with Google, right?

They're gonna get paid a billion dollars to just use Google's model and be done with it. Which is peanuts. but yeah, I agree. I think it's actually like, it's a really bad interface. It works fine for most people because they just opened the news and they just scan through it. and I find myself doing that because it's just there.

but it's, it's actually a really bad news 

[00:46:51] Troy: And it's funny, I don't like the juxtapositions. I don't like USA today next to something more interesting or credible.

[00:47:00] Brian: Shots fired at USA today.

[00:47:03] Troy: I have another one, guys, but you know, you don't, everybody wants to own a a league and AB can comment on this. 

the ultimate is not having to deal with the league if you're a rights owner and there's a new one coming up AB and I think we should look into it and maybe try to get a position on it.

And I got this of all places from 60 minutes and it's, it's, it's the ultimate statement of manhood. It's chess, boxing. Did you see this? You're familiar with this? It's an emerging, it's an emerging league that's really designed to showcase, you know, brains and bra it's called chess boxing. It's 11 rounds, alternating between six rounds of chess and five rounds of boxing. They're three minutes each. The chess is speed chess. if someone knocks you out in the ring, like these are big Russian guys, like they'll knock you out, then you're done. But if you win chess and you survive getting the shit beaten outta you in the ring, 'cause you're like some nerdy chess master, you

[00:48:07] Brian: This is super Slavic. I 

[00:48:09] Troy: is so good and nobody can beat the Russians.

Brian, like, and the Americans have kind of tried to put their best foot forward and they, they did win a really important match recently. 

[00:48:20] AB: Are they taking the gloves off in between the round? How 

does it 

work? 

[00:48:24] Troy: they, You know what they do? they, they, they, I think they take the gloves off and they, there's a really quick one minute transition. They put headphones on and they sit at a, a ringside chest table and, and with the clocks and all that in play check. It's a

great idea. 

[00:48:37] Alex: I mean, I think it's one of those, you know, maybe that's for now the chest that, AI can't beat us at. ' cause you just punched a, 

just punched a computer. I'd love to, I'd love to watch that. Does that, do the moves get like worse and worse as time goes on and, and kind of the brain damage settles in?

[00:48:54] Troy: yeah, yeah. No, but Alex, the people that they find to do this are like, they'll recruit, like they recruited this guy from Philly, I think that's like this 250 pound chess master, and he was like a tank and like a fat guy, and they put him into like serious training so that he could survive getting the shit beaten out of him by this Russian boxer.

But he could

[00:49:16] Alex: That's amazing. That's amazing. I mean, that's the next, that's, that's how you reinvigorate Rocky, the franchise, 

[00:49:22] Brian: one interesting insight that I, I don't know where you're watching this stuff, Troy, but someone, I was talking to someone with one of these YouTube roll-ups this week, and he mentioned that the amount of people with YouTube now on their TVs is allowing them to extend the content window much further than they ever thought they could.

[00:49:38] AB: So normally long form content on YouTube was like 20 minutes, but because now people actually, not just YouTube tv where they're watching cable channels, but because people have YouTube on their TVs, they can extend like just a normal YouTube channels content to 40 plus minutes and the watch, like people are not dropping off.

So I think that's something interesting is you're gonna see the Dynamisms of the world or what the Nick Carlson one, that does the business news, like being able to do much longer videos and still have people watch, which I think is kind of fun 

and 

depending on 

[00:50:10] Troy: his stuff. He's like Discovery Channel 2.0. He does a

good, he does good stuff. But you know, one of the interesting things to watch there, AB is gonna be. What does YouTube decide to roll into the YouTube app? So, for example, I don't care. I have YouTube tv. I like it 'cause I can watch it anywhere. And, but the only reason, really the only reason I get it is for Sunday ticket and they, they sell me Sunday ticket and I watch football games there. I don't know why else I pay 80 bucks a month or whatever it is, but I, I think now I can get my Sunday ticket programming through my YouTube app and ultimately I can buy it there and I won't need YouTube TV 

[00:50:48] Brian: Yeah. By the way, just a quick note on chess, boxing it, it, it's been around since 2003, 

[00:50:54] Troy: 2003. it came out of a graphic novel that this

[00:50:57] Brian: well, I was born in Berlin, which I think is very fitting, and it was organized by a Dutch performance artist.

[00:51:03] Troy: Yeah. All right.

[00:51:06] Brian: Good ideas can come from anywhere. 


[00:51:08] Outro
---

[00:51:08] Troy: That's it for this episode of people versus algorithms where each week we uncover patterns shaping media culture and technology. Big thanks as always to our producer, Vanja Arsenov. She always makes us a little clearer and more understandable and we appreciate her very, very much. If you're enjoying these conversations, we'd love for you to leave us a review.

It helps us get the word out and keeps our community growing. Remember, you can find People vs. Algorithms on Apple Podcasts, on Spotify, and now on YouTube. Thanks for listening and we'll see you again next week.

[00:51:42] Brian: All right, let's wrap it up. Let's leave it there. good episode. Thanks for bringing the heat. We'll be back next week.

[00:51:48] Troy: Thanks, Brian.

[00:51:49] Alex: Thanks. 



