PVA S2E64
===

[00:00:00] Alex: Brian's setup is basically the before on the before and after podcasting setup you need to do. There's like not one piece of art on the wall. It

[00:00:08] Troy: He's a minimalist. 

are we, what are we doing? We're doing the cancellation episode. Is

that what we're 

[00:00:12] Brian: no, we're doing like 2024 storylines. Yeah, that's why we prepared.

[00:00:19] Alex: yeah, that's why we wrote a whole

goddamn 

[00:00:21] Brian: Wasn't that the point of the preparation? This is why I was against the preparation. 

[00:00:25] Alex: I did homework for the first time in 30 

years. 

[00:00:27] Troy: No, it's, it's, I, I, I did, appreciate the preparation 

[00:00:31] Alex: It's your Christmas present we prepared.

[00:00:34] Brian: 


[00:00:56] Episode start
---

[00:00:56] Brian: I just want to start with a little quick review, party review, because I did,

[00:01:00] Troy: love this. I think this is a great ad. I've been wanting to add this for a long time. Thank. God

[00:01:05] Brian: I, I don't go to a lot of parties, and I was way past my bedtime as Jason Wagenheim said, he was able to get me into the Nylon House party. I think I saw the future of media, right there. It was throbbing party of like thousands of people on the beach, in South Beach. And, there was many brand activations too, which I found very interesting.

Because there was a lot of people there, I would not go to a party and go to an elf cosmetics. stand, but a lot, a lot of people did. So, kudos to

Bustle. 

[00:01:38] Troy: Nice one, Brian. Bustle. 

[00:01:39] Alex: you just excited about the commercial experience 

or 

[00:01:44] Brian: the 

[00:01:45] Alex: did, did, 

any product resonate with you? 

[00:01:47] Brian: The 

tequila, The tequila, 

did. 

[00:01:49] Troy: No, but did you have a good time? What did you wear, Brian? What 

did you wear?

[00:01:52] Brian: I wore a, a black, a black sweatshirt, with, I think you like commented on it. I don't know. It's got this kind of mirror thing on it. My wife said it. My 

wife said it. looked, looked perfectly acceptable. And I ran into Brian, he didn't, and he didn't make a negative comment on it.

He said, this is a great party, right? all he said to me. 

[00:02:12] Troy: You didn't question how you got

[00:02:13] Brian: I have to follow up because I complained immediately. Cause they had there's, it's like intense security, like club security. I don't go till 11 or anything like, so I'm turning 51 next week. I do not like to be yelled at by people.

I don't like to be yelled at. just because I'm going to some party on the beach, like, big deal. I don't want to be yelled at. there was too much,

[00:02:30] Troy: What are you, what are you saying? Who yelled at

[00:02:32] Brian: the security guard, like, when you're trying to get in, you know, they're like, back up, back up, back up. And I'm like, Dude, I'm here for the e.

l. f. Cosmetics brand activation, sir.

[00:02:43] Troy: Excuse me, I'm 51 and I don't like to be 

[00:02:45] Brian: Jesus Christ. But one of the greats, I don't know who, I told Jason afterwards, whoever sold Hilton on an activation, they had like a bed activation there. That's amazing. I, now that I'm a salesperson, I, I, I respect that you're able to get the Hilton across as a client for a giant party, on the beach.

So kudos to whoever sold Hilton. All right.

So let's talk storylines of 2024. Should we get into this? I want to start with a news segment. I want to trial this ahead of. Next year. Do you want to go?

[00:03:16] Troy: Do it. Hit the news, 


[00:03:17] topic 1
---

[00:03:17] Troy: Brian. 

[00:03:18] Brian: top of the news. this came out yesterday. Epic won an Epic legal case. Epic, which is the publisher of the Fortnite, and other games.

Alex can translate what any of this means for me. a jury ruled for Epic. In its case against Google for being in a legal monopoly with its app store. Now, Epic had earlier lost a case against, Apple. So this was a surprise to those of us who don't follow this very closely. And for me, what was very interesting in this is that in some ways, Google seems more at risk here because it has.

An open model. So it needs to stifle competition like behind closed doors versus like Apple stifling competition by, how it designs its system. Alex, break this down. Am I somewhat in the neighborhood here?

[00:04:08] Troy: yeah, you are. I think,Okay, 

so let's just let's just break these news items up into bullets. Let's just make 

them a little bit more bang, bang.

[00:04:15] Alex: okay. Let me let me just take a step back.

epic versus google and apple. It's basically a very similar case epic does fortnite they got annoyed about the fact that they,couldn't sell, those microtransactions that couldn't affect them on the game without paying massive taxes, 30%. and they went after Google and Apple.

the way they did it at first is actually, they actually found some roundabout way, put something up, on a, on a website or whatever, and, and linked from the app to their own payment system. And, and that's the. The main crux of it is that they don't think that once it's in the app, they should be giving Apple or Google, 30 percent or any percentage, on transactions that happen within their software.

They were immediately, banned by those two platforms after they did that. And then they, they went on and sued. the Apple case was not as successful, but they keep saying they lost, but they didn't entirely lose, they didn't win the fact that Apple, allowed for different language on the link. So the thing that maybe some folks don't know is that if you want to, 

Ask someone to pay for a subscription on an app that runs on an iPhone. You're not allowed to say, hey guys, if you go to our website, it's going to be cheaper. Apple stops you from using that language. so you, you have to be very non specific, non committal, which means that most people will never click that and not understand why the single button pressed within DOS is, any worse than, than going to the website.

so they did win that, which means that now app, developers have a lot more opportunities to funnel Customers into a different payment system, but it's still not, completely open the google one we don't really know, what google's going to be asked to do and it's going to probably be a 

[00:06:01] Troy: This is going to be an appeal, but basically you could, you could, you could get credentialed and do your transaction through the web, bring your credentials to an app. The app company would not, however, the gaming company, whatever it is, wouldn't have to pay, the 30 percent toll consumers likely would benefit as would the, the creators of apps in the ecosystem.

[00:06:21] Alex: yeah and to understand, company Epic, it's run by Tim Sweeney, who's really outspoken and they never went out for damages. They just went out to try to get these companies to change, the way they conduct business. And in Google's case, it was, pretty blatant that they were doing a back, a lot of backhanded deals because they're open and because the, the platform is on multiple phones.

The wheeling and dealing is a lot, is a lot, I would say grungier than Apple. Just saying, Nope, that's the way we do it.

[00:06:52] Brian: why internal tech emails is like my one of my favorite sites

around. They're great. 

[00:06:57] Alex: and also when you Google, youkind of like used to winning, and turns out, I mean, even with search, Google is doing all these backroom deals.

I think this is really, important for the rest of the ecosystem. as companies like Netflix are trying to go into. things like gaming, as different companies are trying to build, environments where people can, engage in like software commerce on their platforms. This could be a big, a big shift.

And I expect the EU is locked and loaded with, with 

[00:07:23] Brian: Come on, come on. That's what the EU does best. yeah, I I'm interested because, these companies have proven like almost like Teflon to like traditional antitrust. I'm not a lawyer, but yes and so it's really difficult to prove the dominant positions and how those are Utilized and how there is actual harm that are being created in these markets and it's not whatever monosy Monospiny or something like that.

Anyway, they have monopolies and, they exert those monopolies in different ways. And Google's been fighting off Yelp for like a generation at this point. I mean, they're not, it's not exactly the same, but this is, goes to the heart of a lot of the business models that, for those who operate in markets that are dominated by Google, that they've been complaining about, at least to me, for a generation.

So, it'll be interesting to see. I mean, it could just be one jury, but there's a ton of these cases that, are going to be coming 

in various guises. 

[00:08:21] Alex: Yeah. I mean, I think, you know, the writing's on the wall. I think it was a unanimous decision. that happened in four hours, because I think that most people, if they actually hear how this works, kind of find it weird. that being said, I

[00:08:34] Troy: Let's, let's get to the heart, let's get to the heart of where aggressive

[00:08:38] Alex: what is it?

[00:08:40] Troy: practices of platforms really affect an ecosystem and stop messing around with superficial antitrust bullshit. which, let's let Adobe buy Figma and let's let, Meta buy that stupid activity, app.

And let's just not. Worry about those little things and let's focus on opening up platforms for lots of

constituents. 

[00:09:05] Brian: I agree

[00:09:05] Alex: I mean, that's easy to say, but I think that's right now, those are definitely speed bumps, but the regulators don't have a ton of tools to do anything else but that, right? I get why they're going down that path.

[00:09:15] Brian: Yeah. But then you, but then you see what, what happens is you have Microsoft doing the OpenAI deal because they can't you know, they just find workarounds to it and the, the impact is pretty much the same. And I think that's why EU wants to look at the, the Microsoft OpenAI deal because there's 

no 

way. If, Microsoft wanted to buy open ai, it never would've gotten through. no big m and a is gonna get through, at least with this administration.

[00:09:42] Alex: Yeah.

[00:09:43] Brian: All right, let's move on to the next topic. Dun dun. 

We need like a . 


[00:09:46] topic 2
---

[00:09:47] Brian: Troy, you had shared this thing about, it's less a, a news item, but it's really, I guess it's a conceptual news item in that the New York Times.

Looked around and was like, oh, cable is a total wasteland. All these cable networks are just a wasteland of reruns and they have no reason to really exist. And they're caught between putting programming on streaming and the rise of fast channels to me does away with the need of a USA or Oxygen. I read, I read about oxygen in that article and I was like, oh my god I haven't thought about oxygen since Jerry Laborn was, was running it.

And I think this is going to be an interesting one about, what direction cable ends up going, particularly with this, these networks that to me are like the definition of, of middling.

[00:10:33] Troy: cable looks like AOL did in the aughts, right? It's bad and I just feel bad for old people that just sit there and it's like eating at a cheap buffet it's all you can eat

and you're watching 

[00:10:45] Brian: Like a Ponderosa. 

[00:10:46] Alex: It's like the golden corral of

media. 

[00:10:48] Brian: your 

favorite buffet? Do you have a favorite buffet?

[00:10:51] Troy: I don't know. 

[00:10:54] Brian: The answer is 

Bob's Big Boy. 

[00:10:55] Troy: Oh, you know what I like? You know, that one in London, Ottolenghi, 

[00:10:59] Brian: Of course you, Of course you, go to like a

European buffet. No Ponderosa on your watch.

[00:11:06] Troy: yeah.

Ottolenghi is great. They also have a good cookbook, but anyway, I, yeah, I feel bad for my in laws that haven't figured out how to get the Roku stick or Netflix. And now they're just like, I guess we'll just die watching commercials and reruns Yeah, I got really upset about this because I, I said to my wife, I'm like, you gotta get your brother to go over there and like, refactor that whole entertainment system.

[00:11:31] Brian: So do you know what the successor to this is? I came across this with talking with a company. They're calling it like O O H C T V, which is so great. It's like, we're out of home, and connect to TV, have a baby. And so it's, it's not technically just video ads, there's actual programming, but you just happen to be in a nail salon, or in the back of an Uber, or in a Simon Malls.

Or something and it's plausible enough. It's plausible enough to be in stream programming because there's this big fight going on over the technical definitions of what is in streaming because believe it or not in digital media. Sometimes people cut corners. I know this is shocking news, right? And they'll do things like put video in display ad and claim that it's the streaming inventory.

I know. Gambling in Casablanca, this would never happen. but the, the next frontier is getting your video programming in the nail salon. And this, John Steinberg was early to this with Cheddar. So, the other news point that came out is that, I'll t

[00:12:35] Troy: You remember when he brought his, his Duncan cup onto the, on air every day just to get them as a sponsor?

[00:12:42] Brian: John Steinberg,

[00:12:43] Troy: He's an animal. John's an

[00:12:44] Brian: he's edit, Troy means that complimentary. John, is a longtime digital media executive. anyway, he was the number two at BuzzFeed, and, John got one thing right, there, for sure.

And it was We should sell to Disney for a half billion dollars. BuzzFeed went a different direction. It's worth a tenth of that now. He did not make that mistake with Cheddar. He sold it in 2019 at the top to Altice for 200 million dollars. And now Altice is shopping around Cheddar and saying, take it.

We'll just take the upside. We'll take an earn out. No money up front. You take Cheddar off our hands. Couple ways to sort of look at this to me. It's like one, John is an animal. Amazing job selling it. the other one that I wonder is, why in the world did that transaction ever take place? I never, maybe I don't consider myself particularly savvy, but I didn't, know anyone who, most people respected John's hustle, but like, that thought, Cheddar was a real thing.

[00:13:40] Troy: Hmm.

Do you?

want comments? I mean, I admired it because John was in some ways the godfather or grandfather of fast channels, right? John was doing fast before they were fast. And fast channels are just, packaged a couple hundred hours of content against, you know, free and this kind of post cable ecosystem where you can watch, reruns of national geographic.

Programming or whatever it is, super niches, 250 of them. And so I think the difference, you know, John's insight was cable in some ways is a victim of it's over. funding and that you could build a live news offering, much, much, much cheaper. And if you did that, you could start to elbow your way into distribution relationships, either at the gas station or on the cable bundle.

And I thought that was cool. I don't think the product was particularly good, but that wasn't the idea. I think 

[00:14:39] Alex: What was the 

product? For 

somebody who's 

[00:14:41] Troy: was an, it was like an MSNBC replace, or it's like a, like a sort of CNBC

[00:14:47] Brian: like, the only flaw was the product sucked. Okay. But no, he, he put 

distribution first, 

[00:14:51] Alex: The only time I ever saw, like, cheddar was on Twitter. So, was it like

[00:14:55] Brian: Well, originally it was going to 

live on Twitter and Facebook and all that stuff, but there's no money in that. He quickly realized that there's no money. And so,

[00:15:03] Alex: so it was meant to be like an MSN, CNBC replacement

[00:15:06] Troy: it was business news, cheap and cheerful, young announcers, and then John scrambled to find any nook and cranny that he could jam it into. And the problem was that it was cable without the affiliate fees. So you, you didn't really have distribution. So you kind of had to say, yeah, we're now in thousands of outlets, even though no one watches it and then really fight to get sponsors against that proposition

[00:15:32] Brian: know if no one watches it. A lot of people heard it because, I, one of my claims, actually it's my only claim to fame

was 

[00:15:38] Troy: watches it. 

What do you mean? No one, it doesn't fit YouTube. It doesn't fit tech 

[00:15:43] Brian: well, so it's on gas pumps nationwide and I helped make that happen because he was cutting so many distribution deals and, and the nail salon deal put me over the edge.

I, and I tweeted, I was like. How long before cheddar is on gas pumps and he replied he said that's a great idea and the CEO of gas gas station TV Sean McCaffrey replied was like let's make it happen and it happened and there is entire Subreddits devoted to people complaining about having cheddar Blasted at like 11 when they're trying to fill up

[00:16:16] Alex: So another reason for people not to like you then, Brian. Well done.

[00:16:21] Brian: Whatever, we all have a role to

[00:16:22] Alex: You made, refueling a misery.

[00:16:25] Troy: but, so distribution was a problem. It didn't meet the needs of next generation who are getting their news on Tik TOK, it didn't compete with. CNBC is a good product, extremely well founded, very talented hosts, and so it didn't really kind of compete anywhere. It was just kind of opportunistic and John's genius was selling it to a kind of dumb local television company that, 

[00:16:52] Alex: USA,

[00:16:52] Brian: yeah. 

[00:16:53] Troy: that, saw the promise of owning a next gen cable

[00:16:56] Brian: But John is such a hustler. He sold the thing for 200 million and he was like, the weatherman, on a, a Long Island, local news program, like the weekend weather forecaster. Do you remember this? it was like amazing. The guy has such, he's got a high motor and now he's running future, which is in a world of hurt after, so glutton for punishment.

So kudos to you, John.

[00:17:19] Troy: I saw him in London about six months

ago. It's 

[00:17:22] Brian: How's he doing? I'm Their results

were terrible. Advertising down 25%.

[00:17:27] Alex: if you, if you sold a company for 200 million, would you jump back? Would you jump back into media?

[00:17:34] Brian: No, I'd be at the nylon house.

[00:17:36] Alex: There are two types of people that I bump into in media. It's either, overly optimistic people that are still deeply passionate about it, or people who feel like they can't do anything else. You know, like, 

like, 

[00:17:50] Brian: when I say it. 

[00:17:54] Alex: I don't know. are you both, what, what, what bucket 

you put yourself 

in 

[00:17:58] Brian: in the bonus episode.

[00:17:59] Alex: I just, I would like to tell all our listeners that I appreciate them all. 

[00:18:03] Troy: So if you appreciated them all, we would move through these news

items a little more quickly. 

[00:18:08] Alex: well, you be the ones talking.


[00:18:10] topic 3
---



[00:18:10] Brian: so final one is about, the awkwardness of AI's awkward phase, I would say. and look, we've discussed before what, went on at Sports Illustrated with, Advan. and now, the entire management team has been cleaned out. Now, I know these things happen, and sometimes.

There's cover that that that is conveniently located for changes that we're probably going to make any way. but I think there's more scrutiny than ever on how media is going to use. AI tools in order to create content how that's disclosed within the content, whether, whether people care or not.

And no matter what, there's going to be so many errors that are going to be made. And we saw it at GeoMedia. Semaphore had a really good piece about, investor. com, basically just Taking people's articles and trying to throw it, throw it into chat GPT and get away with, ripping off people's content.

but I think that's the tip of the iceberg. If I were to say a 2024 storyline, it's going to be a lot, a lot of ham handed uses of AI tools in order to create. Very cheap semi synthetic content. I don't know. What is your what's your forecast? Right?

[00:19:25] Troy: You know, I think that we'll go through all of this and we'll start focusing on what matters eventually, which is, did the content meet the needs of the consumer? And, was it, with some type of integrity, irrespective of, how it was created. This one, you know, again, I disclosed last time that I know all the people in here and they're, good, well meaning people, but the, I think that the media for the most part, we have a very kind of overzealous futurism trying to, to be first with all the headlines around, Oh my God, this media company used AI in a, dastardly way.

think that they should maybe make sure they examine the other brands within their, corporate structure to make sure they're not using AI in nefarious ways. 

[00:20:10] Brian: Yeah. Well, they had to attach. They had attached a disclaimer that, Advan also does

[00:20:15] Troy: Yeah. So, so some context here. I mean, I think the headline's wrong. I think, impatient billionaire, elbows his way into getting a media network, media company on the cheap, maybe has the desire over time to take sports illustrated and rebrand his cheap, sports network with that name.

and, gets in and wipes out the management team and, the AI story happens to be, a convenient cover for complete house cleaning and as a way to maybe, not have to pay people out. Who knows? we'll see how it works out. But the, You know, just a little context for folks.

So lots of pressure in media. We all understand that everybody's scrambling to find a way to pay for folks and not have to lay people off. You hire a company to help you do, affiliate that company is, this is Advon that I'm speaking of makes potentially makes bad decisions. And, When you realize it's happened, it's become a major news story and you need to deal with it.

Now, I could tell you that it's roughly equivalent to a media company hiring a shitty partner, like maybe an ad network that runs afoul of the rules and puts ads in places that, you know, and runs, crappy gambling ads or whatever. And it just doesn't seem to me to be grounds for. firing an entire executive team.

and so I just think there's more to the story, right? but it certainly we are, if the bigger story is that we're going through that, like you said, awkward phase in trying to figure out how automation is going to augment humans. to create content, that story is going to go on all through 24 and it's inevitable that it gets used in some shape or form.

It's just, who's going to make sure they, they prioritize the most important thing, which is did the technology help us make better content faster, smarter, more economically that meets the needs of a, of a 

[00:22:14] Brian: Yeah. And I think there's, there's also. We used to do this, this story type of the, the new most important person in the newsroom and it's going to be like the AIs are inevitably New York Times just brought in Zach Seward, who was running courts for a long time. And in order to sort out how they approach using these AI tools.

Alex, you're close to these. How would you recommend that publishers? think about this because ultimately we always hear about trust in media and declining trust and I think the way, I agree with Troy that modern digital publishing is very complicated and you've got like complicated supply chains and you have partners who do a lot for you and ultimately, there's going to be screw ups and stuff like this, but I think it's a little bit, risky for publishers that are already having a bit of a deficit in trust to be turning over what should be their core competency, which is making content robots.

[00:23:12] Alex: think, having been the technologist in the room many times, there's always a moment where you get a new capability or a new tool and you sit down and you show it to Executive or leadership or product manager, and you pray that they're not going to have bad judgment and that they're not going to fall in love with it and do stupid shit with it.

And it can be anything. at some point, it was the lens flare in Photoshop that creative directors started saying, Okay, just plaster that everywhere. or JavaScript and websites or whatever. And I think it People are, are inherently, fall in love with these things. It's way too tasty to not use.

And at the scale of AI and the power it has and the capabilities it has, it's really powerful at exposing people's bad judgment. Hey guys, you can do everything. All right. Well, without much context or like intellectual. thought processes or an understanding of the technology or what people want. I can see an outcome where this makes us money and therefore I'm going to make a bunch of bad decisions and we're going to see so many of those.

It's just that technology is just too powerful, just too easy to implement for,well meaning executives, to not make the worst decisions. I think sometimes we're saved by the fact that things are hard to make, things that are easy To do are going to just create a bunch of these decisions.

So to me, this will a really good job at exposing people who make bad decision. And I'm not, I have no idea of what happened at, and I'm sure that there was like some cover, 

[00:24:48] Troy: Stupid, stupid executives. You found a friend in premium economy, Brian. 

[00:24:53] Alex: Well, it's not, it's not, I'm not saying all executives are stupid. That restraint of when and when not to use technology is a sign of, of good decision making and good judgment. Right. And I think that sometimes. A lot of executives are given blinders by the fact that the company can just not do that. But imagine overnight if you invent teleportation, right?

How much stupid shit will come from people who don't have the imagination to create a better world or a better product from it? And I think AI is this thing. It is

[00:25:22] Troy: What would, sorry, can you, elaborate what would it be? Bad decisions with teleportation.

[00:25:27] Brian: I'll be a

[00:25:27] Alex: teleport the hamburger straight into my mouth. That's the way. That's the way we're going to do it.

We're going to just sell more

hamburgers. 

[00:25:34] Troy: you would do if I gave you a teleportation.

[00:25:36] Alex: Troy, Troy, the amount of, it happened with crypto, now it's happening with AI, the amount of people, 

[00:25:42] Troy: Love crypto. 

[00:25:44] Alex: who are sitting on, brands, which might or might not be successful, and call me for advice on inherently bad Ideas that will lead them into terrible situations

[00:25:56] Troy: Alex, I would, I would teleport over to your house and have tea with you right now.

[00:26:00] Alex: Well, look, I'm sorry, I know, I know that they're your, your friends. I'm not judging them. And I'm not saying this specific situation happened like this. But I think we will see 

[00:26:10] Troy: So AI 

should come with a warning label.

[00:26:12] Alex: No, it's like you're giving this really powerful tool to people who are 

not qualified to make 

[00:26:17] Brian: I think I understand what Alex is saying. This is my translation of what Alex is saying. This is a new tool that has so many different possible use cases. And I think the temptation is to try to jam it into whatever playbook you used to run, right? So if you're Jim Spanfeller, and you've got a playbook you've been running for for a generation now, AI is just a new tool to run the same playbook, etc, etc, etc.

And maybe It requires a different playbook. I think it's a normal human thing to go, anytime something new is being like, how can I adopt this to what I've done that has worked for me for 20 years? I think that's normal, isn't it? 

[00:26:57] Troy: Yeah, no, I think the point is fine. The point is fine, but you don't prevent me from, I just want to know where I should teleport.

[00:27:05] Alex: Well, I mean, I don't, it, it, it doesn't matter what the technology is. If you put power in the hands of people who have a lack of judgment and imagination, you end up somewhere bad. It matter,

[00:27:15] Brian: I would teleport back to New York. I have a middle seat tonight on my flight. I know. I hate that. They gave the bullshit. I get the bullshit like premium economy upgrade that puts me into a middle seat. What? No, that's not an upgrade. That's an insult.

[00:27:28] Alex: That's terrible. 

[00:27:29] Brian: Alex, what are we going to be talking about? Let's talk about the storyline of AI.

You had this at.

[00:27:33] Troy: Are we done with the 

[00:27:34] Brian: Yeah, yeah, yeah. We're going to get into a couple of storylines. This is a work in progress. 

[00:27:40] Alex: we'll remind people at the end of the episode, but we're going to have to revisit our 2023 predictions, which we did. 

[00:27:47] Brian: I got one right. I 

[00:27:48] Alex: yeah, 

[00:27:48] Brian: was going to have a really rough year. Yeah.

[00:27:50] Alex: that's true. Yeah.

[00:27:51] Troy: Yeah, that's a good idea. We should do that and also we should get a jingle for the new news segment, if possible.


[00:27:58] 24 news theme
---

[00:27:59] Brian: all right, let's let's get into 

these storylines. One, Alex, you had said that just because it follows on this is that AI gets specialized. and. You know this, this seems like such a fast changing technology that the stuff that normals are talking about is going to be already like behind. So, if one wants to be ahead on all of these changes.

What do you think they should be keeping their eyes on.

[00:28:25] Alex: with AI, we're, we've been in the stage of the technology where there is a very generalized set of tools that we're all, using and looking at, and we're kind of all using in very similar ways. most of us, at least, you know, it's a lot of generative stuff, generating images and text and getting access to information.

but what we're starting to see now and a lot of the startup and a lot of the VC, or a lot of the activity that we're that we're seeing has gone into, The things that we can kind of expect, you know, like stuff that generates images, stuff that generates text, stuff that edits video, et cetera, because these are, as you're looking at the tool, these are the first ideas that come to mind and probably the easiest one to execute on.

The things that are coming are concepts that we Couldn't predict, you know, the same way, nobody predicted that maps would lead to Uber or Airbnb. we're going to see AI, core AI tools that were built, that are, we're not just slapping AI on, on functions and features that we have today, but we're building new tools that,okay, that weren't possible

without 

AI. 

[00:29:28] Troy: give me, can you give me an 

[00:29:30] Brian: Yeah, I was 

[00:29:30] Alex: Well, I wish I could because then I could, I would raise a hundred million dollars. But I, I would say

that but I would say that imagine specialized tools for planning travel, right? A specialized tool just for planning, booking, managing your travel. not an AI search on, on top of TripIt or Expedia, but a specialized tool to plan, manage your travel in a much more meaningful way than something that chat GPT would come out.

That's a very simple idea. And I'm

sure 

there's 30 companies working on that. I think that what we should be looking at is the only thing you cannot win the interface or, or it's going to be very hard to win the interface unless. You own the data, because the interface is going to be something that's going to be very easily to add as a feature to any of the data brokers like, google search or the people who own The operating system the people who give you access to that data will be able to to build these things as features into their software if the data is available publicly, so everything everything will Come down to owning very specific data or doing something really magical with that data that allows you to, output things that nobody else can.

And so, I think that's going to be, a really interesting time for everyone. but if you're letting, AI models, just, get through your stuff and digest it, you're just. digging a hole for yourself right now, I think. unless, I don't, I don't see that the transaction of getting traffic for giving them data is no longer tenable.

[00:31:07] Brian: Yeah, so what I wonder is, is what is the significance of the weight shifting to open source models versus centralized because I guess when I was originally thinking about it, it was like, okay, they're going to be these massive AI brains that everyone's going to be plugging it be plugins 

of. 

[00:31:24] Alex: Yeah, I mean the computer is still a moat, right? So having a lot of machines and data centers and stuff like that is still a moat and that still will cost a fair amount of money for a long time. The open source activity just shows us that the generalized AI, tools are going to be entirely commoditized.

It's just going to be some things that computers do. Right? Computers are just going to function in a way where you ask them something and they come back with something and they're going to be multimodal. They're going to be able to look at photos and documents and they're going to be able to regurgitate that.

So, the value of chat GPT, as a software or that copilot and Bing or whatever, that's going to be completely commoditized. It's going to exist everywhere. And so. people who win here are probably people who win the interface which is you know Apple and google who own the phone, I have a Hypothesis that apple just added this action button on the right side of their phone Not because they want you to take photos quickly because that's might be the ai button that you press that just does ai shit when you press it, so they're gonna they're gonna win

[00:32:31] Troy: AI shit again.

[00:32:33] Alex: yeah do that ai shit,But the rest of it it's going to be commoditized.

So what do you do with the commoditized AI? Well, you look at your data set and you look at what you have, and you look at what's a mode, in my case, the way I'm building a defensible mode is I'm moving into a business where there is, video games, which is still incredibly hard to do that AI can accelerate, but cannot magically, replace this.

concept of like narrative and game making and putting all these pieces together. It might one day, but it doesn't do that yet. If I was sitting on, any type of commercial data that nobody else had, that I would be very excited about what I can do. If I was a website that was generating articles to generate search engine traffic, then I just shut it down 

[00:33:15] Brian: No, try to get paid, try to get paid for, those LLMs are 

[00:33:19] Alex: six months.

[00:33:20] Brian: cut checks, right? So

[00:33:23] Alex: I 

mean, caveat, right? Caveat. some court cases and trademark law might completely change the game if, there's a, 

[00:33:32] Brian: Yeah. 

There's a, there's a massive flaw to all of the, to a lot of these technology business 

models. It's like, we actually have to pay for the stuff that our business doesn't 

work as well. Go figure. 

Wow. 

[00:33:45] Alex: know, there's IP law experts that say that, actually this doesn't qualify as copyright

[00:33:50] Brian: Oh, you can, if you pay a lawyer enough, you will find the law says whatever the hell you want it to say, and trust me, they have a lot of 

[00:33:58] Alex: well, we'll see. 

their arguments. All I'm saying is that it's 50, 50, there's no, you know, there's a, there's a potential for these, but I wouldn't, I wouldn't bet on it, considering the people. with the biggest checks are

[00:34:09] Brian: Yeah. It'll be interesting to see which AI products take off, right? Because I think that's really important because, look, there's a point where the hype gets to people saying, what the hell is all this? This is just all nonsense, right? Because outside of chat GPT, I don't know of any breakout products that people are like, Oh my God, AI.

Like I know in early adopter cycles, but at some point it has to get into the mainstream of, the prototypical, you know, Thanksgiving, I guess, Christmas dinner tables sort of thing. And I saw Apple has a new journaling app out that uses AI to suggest what people write in their journal.

I found this fairly hilarious that people need, need a prompt to know what to write in their diary, but maybe this is

[00:35:01] Alex: I tried, using that. It's a, it's an interesting product,

[00:35:04] Brian: Just open a notes app and just write what's on your mind. You don't need 

[00:35:07] Alex: Yeah. 

[00:35:08] Brian: but that's me. 

[00:35:10] Alex: also it's an odd. Very specific thing for Apple to get into. Look, where is the I being used? I mean, I think it's like the, we have an analog. It was the internet. And at first the internet was used for stuff that, we thought the internet would be good at.

Like it's a list of websites or it's, just sending an email to each other. But over time, like. We're not even thinking about how the internet is connected to computing. It's just a thing that computing does, and AI will be the same thing. A thing that, all computing does. There won't be a thing that, doesn't have the ability to have some sort of AI in the background.

no way. It's already started. Like our photos are being translated. Our emails are going to do that. We're not going to use anything that doesn't go through some sort of AI filter. My browser, when I download files, renames them and categorizes them using an AI so that the file names are not all messy. 

[00:35:59] Troy: That's 

hot. 

[00:36:00] Alex: it's everywhere. 

[00:36:01] Troy: I have that? Where do you get that?

That's cool. 

[00:36:03] Alex: yeah, I think, it's the ARC browser. It's, I think it was a good product recommendation.

[00:36:08] Troy: All right. So there we go. News theme. What was that? That's a 24 theme,

[00:36:14] Brian: Yeah, that was a 24 three. So, let's do one more actually. cause I got a 2 p. m. meeting. let's go through. Let me see. one, one from you, Troy. You had one point that you said that the new platform is more hostile than the last platform. Explain that. I

[00:36:33] Troy: Did I put that in 

there? 

[00:36:34] Brian: so.

[00:36:34] Troy: Oh, okay. Well, let's do that then. I mean, this is a part of the, the theme that we've been banging on about for a long time on this podcast, which is that as,a media person, when media. sort of became unbundled from the, package, which, you know, in newspapers became articles, magazines, were no longer issues and became articles fed through platforms, that the, the value proposition was undermined and it was harder and harder to both differentiate your.

editorial effort and to, to make money off of it. All of that had to do with,losing kind of distribution primacy. But, the next one is, as Alex said, the interface becomes very different. and it's, primarily,a window in chat and it takes fragmentation to the next level.

It's just kind of easy to see the chapters, right? First it was an issue to an article to. Some semantic structure that answers your question. And clearly that's not all media and there's, still things will read and point of view and things like podcasts, don't get aggregated in the same way, but, let's just be extremely clear.

The new platforms are AI driven tools. Many of which will be subscription, led like perplexity or, or open AI. Alex turned me on to perplexity, by the way, and I've been, been using it. It brings together multiple models underneath of a query. And, publishers are You know, fucked basically, like in that environment, you just lose half of your, it just, it's continued erosion.

And so they're going to try to fight back. I talked to lots of publishers and you're already seeing it on the margin, people whose search traffic is down and. who are, are just facing, remember in most digital publishing revenue is linearly connected to the number of pages you serve. And so that's all being desegregated.

So I think publishers will fight back harder. We've seen a little bit of it, but I can't really, I mean, people are cheering on. the Canadians right now because they've managed to extract a hundred million dollars annually, which seems like a, that's Canadian dollars, 74 million American dollars. It seems like a paltry amount to, to dish out to the media ecosystem in Canada.

But, I can't really see a world where Google becomes this kind of benevolent central bank for content. but at the same time, I think the tension in this, Is that content has to come from somewhere, even if we are, we do talk about broadly this, the structural decline of digital media.

Like I still read a lot of professional media every day. I still read stuff from the verge or from, well, certainly from, major news outlets or from, vertical publications That I, you know, value and they show up in lots of ways. So we need people to make content.

We need a system that pays them, but it's just getting harder and harder. don't think it's as simple as saying, well, it just, it becomes like,this boutique industry, I think you're still going to need media brands and you're still going to need, significant editorial organizations that support them.

But, the interface to content. And the aggregators of content, are just getting more powerful. 

[00:40:04] Alex: Brian and Troy, I mean, I hear of you both reading a lot of traditional media, reading through articles, and even on our little messaging group. You keep sharing articles to each other. I very rarely read them,

[00:40:17] Troy: so cute. 

[00:40:18] Alex: but it is, it's, it's, it feels quaint.

[00:40:21] Troy: do you mean you don't read this stuff I put in there?

[00:40:23] Alex: I mean, I get them digested. I mean, honestly,

like, 

[00:40:25] Troy: do you digest, how do you do that

[00:40:27] Alex: well, okay, let me give you a cent. An overview of my, my media consumption. Okay. 

[00:40:33] Brian: we'll have a vote about who's the edge case, you or Troy and I.

[00:40:37] Alex: Well, yeah, exactly. I don't know who the edge case is. In the morning. either by the radio or the podcast. I'll, I'll get the news.

the NPR is up first. It's like eight minutes gives me the news. And then, I might do the same thing for tech and, and a business, update. Then if there's anything that I'm really interested in, I'll go into perplexity and I say, give me the updates on Epic versus Google. And then I might say, okay, dig into this feature or make me a bullet list of the key facts.

And then I can tell you I am better educated about these things than, 95 percent of the people that I

talk to every day. 

[00:41:11] Troy: better than the average bear?

[00:41:13] Alex: No, I mean i'm saying on on these topics. I am Heavy

[00:41:17] Brian: More than 95%. 

Those 95 percent have read nothing. 5 percent have 

actually read paragraphs 

[00:41:24] Alex: no no, no, no i'm making i'm making an important point here I think that most people I bump into that also listen to the news or they might've heard of the epic versus Google thing. My fact count is higher because I just asked perplexity to just give me a bullet list without all the other bullshit.

And I'm, and I'm only focusing on the news that I want. So it's a very, generally like practical way of consuming news. And then I spend my deep reading time reading books like at a fiction or nonfiction, but they're books, you know, and they, anything in the middle. I'm just like getting shot straight through the vein.

I'm not like I paid for the New York Times subscription and it is painful to get my news like that It's genuinely just like why why you why are you saying so many words? but I could be in the minority or it could be the future. I don't know.

[00:42:15] Brian: yeah. I mean, it seems that I mean, look, the commoditized news content, can be obviously delivered in a much more succinct way. And AI tools will be useful in that. I mean, look, the entire premise of axios was basically that. The New York Times articles really only needed to be, for the most part, three hundred words or less.

And it was a bunch of B material, which is all the, throat clearing and to be sure and context stuff. So,

[00:42:44] Alex: So what's what's non news what still exists?

[00:42:47] Brian: what do you, I, well, I mean, I think, some people want to 

[00:42:50] Alex: out bigger? 

[00:42:51] Brian: into, topics. And

[00:42:53] Alex: But I do that better with perplexity than somebody, than hoping that the person I'm reading, gives me what I need. Does it make sense? Like, I'm playing devil's advocate here a

[00:43:02] Brian: no, I think it makes sense. I just, I'm, I'm sorry. I guess it makes sense for you. I, I just, we just don't know, if you're a representative sample, of people who don't, Aren't you? I guess that's, that's just a bit, you know, we, we, we don't know, we don't know yet about whether, cause I think that's what Troy's getting at is we're not really sure that people even want all this stuff.

I mean, let's be real. I mean, Silicon Valley is premised on making the future and that means making stuff that nobody asked for. Right. nobody's 

asked for it. And so we don't know if people want this shit at all.

[00:43:35] Alex: I think information brokers, especially if they're training and information that is available out there, the written word is going to be so much better at just giving you a quick rundown of what's happening or, and it's not even only news. It's, it's anything like any topic that you want, et cetera, you can get Pretty deep into anything and the rest of it.

I feel like if I really care about the person's opinion i'll listen to them or i'll

watch them. I won't read them. 

[00:44:02] Brian: You don't like, if you don't like to read, you don't like to read. I don't like that.

[00:44:05] Alex: I I read a ton. I

[00:44:06] Brian: Oh, but if you don't like to read news, then why would you all of a sudden want to read news? Then this is a great way. This, this makes the 

[00:44:13] Alex: Well brian because I think I mean I think in my career i've been pretty good at exhibiting behaviors that ended up becoming normalized, right? And I, I can't see, in the, in the history of, of the evolution of the user interface, it's always about like reducing the friction, getting, things to you that you want.

and I don't think people are going to be able to resist getting their information like that. And it's a 

word of 

warning, 

[00:44:37] Troy: to just, make a couple of points here. First of all, I find. I find Alex's behavior and vision to be very compelling, actually. And I think it's real. I don't think that the interface makes it accessible to everybody, but I think that people just want a few bullets on something, and sometimes if they're really interested, they'll dig in.

It's really interesting to me, Brian, that what he's saying is the format of media is broken. And that it is an Axios thing obviously, but it's not giving him what he wants. So he's a tool user by nature and he's, very organized in how he likes to sort of set things up. So he's got a workaround and the world will start to look more like his workaround.

I just wonder in that world, how does it resolve for media brands like a verge or a media brand, like, the information because, Alex has no time for those guys and unless you're creating surface area through a relationship like that, it's either hard to justify a subscription or it's hard to justify.

it's hard to find a place for advertising. And so what happens is that Alex's diet. Perplexity is a, what do you call it? Something that sucks from the system. It's a,

what word am I, it, perplexity is a parasite app, right? Like it, it surfs through all the stuff that people make and sucks all the value out of it without returning anything.

And that can't go on indefinitely or the ecosystem completely breaks down and you start watching cable repeats.

[00:46:13] Alex: Yeah, I mean, my question is maybe a topic for next time is that if all those news and media companies pull their content away from things like perplexity, is there enough activity on the internet of like people posting stuff on social medias or blogs or whatever?

[00:46:28] Troy: That's the big question, Right. Right. But the, but there's no reliable reporting. That's for sure. Alex, like who's pays for reporting? It's expensive.

[00:46:36] Brian: Yeah,

[00:46:37] Alex: But, you know, a lot of the time you get your reliable reporting via some sort of middleman. Like, my wife will tell me about things that she's read from sources that she trusts, and a lot of the information that we consume is already like that. Did you hear this? Oh, I trust Troy on this topic.

So, 

yes. And if 

[00:46:57] Troy: reporter.

[00:46:58] Alex: That's right, but if you read it from a reporter and you just post it somewhere once that this thing can access, I have Troy's context, right? I don't know, it's a leaky bucket. I don't know how media companies can protect themselves around that. Does that make sense? We just want to share

shit.

[00:47:14] Troy: It's a 

great 

topic. 

[00:47:15] Brian: going to discuss next week. .




[00:47:20] good product
---

[00:47:20] Troy: Hey Brian, alex and I shared a ride in a Waymo in

San Francisco. 

[00:47:24] Brian: How was it?

[00:47:25] Troy: this is cool. You could put your own music on.

we were at a bar, Alex called the Waymo. It was not as fast as an Uber, it took 14 minutes. And it directs you to a place where it can safely pull over. And then you're like, wait, how does it know where I am? And like, how do I know when to get in? So there's a little light on the top that says, get in. We got in, I gotta say it was clean, comfortable. They don't, apparently they claim they don't record you, so Alex and I made out.

[00:47:54] Brian: I knew that was, I was going to bring that up. I'm glad that you got wet there first.

[00:47:58] Alex: Well, you know, but it was San Francisco, on a Thursday evening, 

[00:48:02] Brian: Oh, crazy times. Like quarter to eight. 

[00:48:05] Alex: Well, as the car was coming down, there was actually a guy punching another guy's windshield.

[00:48:11] Troy: It's totally true.

[00:48:12] Alex: Telling him to come, come have some sort of sexual experience with him. And lots of people started honking, people getting out of that car.

Meanwhile, this little automatic robot car just drives all around that stuff and picks us up. You know, I was, I was anxious.

but it 

[00:48:30] Brian: I had a great meeting in San Francisco one time, it was for a potential business transaction and it was with people, it was a delegation from China, and they were giving, you know, a welcoming, address, and, there was a guy who was doing a striptease behind him, on the street, just, like, progressively taking off more clothing and, and chugging a bottle of alcohol. then, the police came and were, like, wrestling him. And it was all happening in the background. It was amazing. Great place. Love it.

[00:48:55] Troy: Yeah, it was during the Folsom Street Fair. Is that what it's called?

[00:48:59] Alex: I love, I love San Francisco.

[00:49:01] Troy: it's the best. I love it too.




[00:49:03] outro
---

[00:49:03] Brian: We got to leave it there

All right. 

[00:49:04] Alex: yeah, 

[00:49:05] Troy: That's, what do you mean? That's 

[00:49:06] Brian: Yeah, this is it. We, we, we got, we're gonna, we're only going to do like a 57 minute episode. I know.

[00:49:11] Alex: Yeah,

that's terrible. It's, 

[00:49:13] Troy: we're going to do more 24 storylines in an upcoming episode, right? And do we want to touch on it? 

[00:49:21] Alex: 

[00:49:21] Troy: Or you could drop off and Alex and

I could 

talk 

[00:49:24] Alex: Yeah, 

[00:49:24] Brian: don't know if you're, I don't 

know 

if you. It's 

[00:49:27] Alex: good. We'll keep talking. 

[00:49:28] Brian: All right, I'm going to drop off.

[00:49:30] Alex: Ha ha ha ha. 

ha ha. Yeah, give us 

[00:49:33] Brian: I'm very excited

[00:49:41] Alex: Alright, 

[00:49:42] Troy: Sam. 

[00:49:43] Alex: 


[00:49:43] Troy & Alex
---

