PvA S3E128 P2
===


[00:00:00] Different Ways to Make Money in Media
---

[00:00:00] Brian2: So what, so just to like put a bow in this, like how would you sum up your, like, theory of the case about, about all of this? About like how media can be used in, in a different way to make money. I mean, it's not like new or anything, but like we were saying is like, it's still incredibly powerful and influential to be able to, you know, use the tools and practices of journalism.

Exactly. But like the old ways of making money from that are increasingly obsolete to me.

[00:00:28] Nick: who is able to keep in their head both argument and counter argument? Like what kind of, what kind of person is able to see that things could go this way, but if he did this, then things would go this way. You know, like who, who is capable of actually analyzing those kind of situations, trying to work out, you know, what Elon Musk's, Musk's psychological payoff, payoff structure is, you know, what are the options open to somebody, you know, if he's trying to write the science fiction novel of, of his own life, what, what are the, the next likely moves you like?

You can analyze this as, as a science fiction narrative if you want, because he's suddenly writing one. And, and so, so I, I, I guess what I'm saying is that, or not you actually assign percentages to each potential path, or whether you just simply judge the credibility of a particular narrative path, it doesn't really matter, but journalists. Traders, you know, maybe my tutor at Oxford who was kind of good at, particularly good at doing that whole, you know, being able to take either side of an argument at the same, you know, pretty much in the same session. You know, there are certain intellectual traditions that allow for that. and I think journalism at least done in a certain way, does allow for that.

[00:01:41] Troy3: Well, hey, Nick, Nick, Nick, a slightly different question for you. Have, have your points of view on journalistic ethics changed since, you know, the, the day you fired half the staff at Gawker and where you sit today? Meaning the role of journalists, sort of now we have this need to feed the machine every day, and some of it feels like sort of petty ha hall monitoring to, you know, to like out, out sch Freud to like holding power accountable. Like do, do, do you have a thought on that, on that continuum?

[00:02:16] Nick: I, I mean, I, I gotta say, I, I think I probably said all I possibly can about media and you and May and maybe answered one question too many already. Because like, I, I don't think about this that much. I don't think about the media industry that much. I, I mean, I can tell you who I read and it's, it's almost all individuals. I, and I do, I do follow them very closely. Tho those individuals who I think of as being bellwethers of one particular group or, or another, it's al almost all individuals. I don't think there's any

institutions, that, that I follow. But, but I, but I don't track in industry at all.

[00:02:52] Troy3: The York Times

[00:02:55] Nick: No, 

[00:02:56] Troy3: go to Twitter first.

[00:02:57] Nick: I mean, I, I would, you know, I would read Ganesh at the ft. There's certain people, you know, I, I like Joe Weal. At Bloomberg. So yes, there are certain people at certain institutions that I pay attention to.

[00:03:09] Brian2: Do you think Substack is an interesting business,

[00:03:11] Nick: I dunno, there's certain, there's certainly some interesting people on it.

I mean, ILA Igl is basically, is, is the democratic body as far as I can tell. I mean, he, he certainly, it provides most of the intellectual content.

[00:03:24] Brian2: Yeah. Well, it's kind of the successor to blogs 

in some ways. I mean, newsletters are the new blogs to some degree,

similar ecosystem.

are you surprised that that Silicon Valley turned on the, the media world? So, I mean, you, you saw like, you know, you were, you were doing Valley Wag and so at the time you were doing Valley wa that was unusual, right? Like this was, this was the time of like fawning coverage still, I think it was still fawning coverage then for most 

media. 

[00:03:50] Nick: I mean value wa was, was certainly the goca sites were a mix, you know, so there were definitely critical pieces and, you know, some of them more serious than others, you know, carried interests. For instance, we had a, we had a little campaign against carried interest. But, look, they've always been touchy. They, they used to be more hands on in their media management. You know, they used to be in your inbox, in your email, and, you know, and Peter Thiel was still trying to whine and maybe not dine, but certainly whine Ryan Tate as late as 2011, you know, three years after the supposed terrible insult that had been visited upon him. And so they, they've definitely, the media management, varies from, you know, gentle, encouragement, you know, through to, lethal lawsuits. And must certainly seems to be inclining towards the more aggressive end of the spectrum right now. It seems to be mainly rhetorical. You know, mainly threatening people. That that was a very doctor evil point he did. Right. I mean, I'm guessing he was talking about Reed Hoffman, you know, it was like, I'm gonna, we, and we're going to get, you had a, it had a definite supervi quality to it. So, so I, I I, I assume he's gonna, some move against the media would be popular about now.

I don't know exactly know who the target is. Like what, what's the media expression of Reid Hoffman? Do you, do you boot him from XI dunno.


[00:05:21] The Nick Reneissance
---

[00:05:21] Troy3: How, how, how did this little, little Nick Denton renaissance start, like about a, what, three weeks ago you, did you decide that you were gonna have a, a moment? I mean, I think you're being, you know, partly, I don't know, you, you joke a little bit about selling the apartment.

Surely that wasn't the motivation. Is it because you are leaving the country imminently? Is it because you felt like there was enough stuff that you wanted to talk about? Are we gonna expect to hear more from you?

[00:05:52] Nick: It was January 20th. It was not the Trump inauguration. It was not the Musk Roman salute. But it was the, the deep seek drop. And, just playing around with deep seek, for a few days. Then we, we were on vacation, in like, in a place where the dollar goes a long way and playing around with deep seek and realizing that it was, it was better than Claude, it was cleaner, like seemingly less censored from my point of view.

I didn't ask it about Ian man. And the idea of American AI supremacy fell away in an instant. See, you could see it was, it was, it was, it was obvious. Okay. Well, so, you know, they've matched in this, they're gonna match in pretty much every other AI model type. And it, the story of AI is gonna be the same as the story of, you know, every hardware industry, which is the Chinese come up at the low end of the market, and maybe if their initial products aren't quite as good, but they're priced at 10, 10 x less or a hundred x less, and gradually they move up the value chain. And clearly AI and by extension software are gonna be no different than. Drones or electric cars or robots or batteries or any other industry you wanna think about. And you know, when you come to that conclusion that all of these different industries are not all different industries, but they're all part of one larger industry, that there is no real difference between phones, batteries, robots, drones, and a bunch of other sectors.

That this is all one category in which companies are competing. And the only one that Amer America has is Tesla in that field. Europe has nothing. And China has, you know, probably about a dozen different contenders in, you know, coming at it from robots, phones, cars, batteries, 

and all directions. 

So that, so that was the, that was the trigger really. It is just why, why is all of my money in US stocks and US real estate when China is, you know, is already in 2023, twice the electricity production of the United States, heading towards 10 x the electricity production of the United States? Electricity reduction is a good proxy for the new economy. So expect the Chinese new economy to be multiples of the size of the American new economy. And, you know, and taking that scenario work out, Hey, ai, if I believe this, tell me how I can best make money. It's not that hard.

[00:08:30] Troy3: Yeah, I told you to come outta your shell and talk What? What happened? But suddenly you were like, I don't wanna be quiet anymore. This is too interesting.

[00:08:38] Nick: I, it's like I said, it's the best story. Like if, if you've, I, I would in, in my, in my time, I've covered the fall of the Soviet Empire, you know, the revolutions in Eastern Europe, emerging markets, the rise of the emerging markets, the derivatives scandals of the 1990s, the first kinda wave of, you know, international finance, in Europe and Southeast Asia, then Silicon Valley, seen up close when I was doing Valley Wag from a greater distance when I was, with the financial times. And, and I can tell you that this right now is by far the best story that I've ever, come across in my life. And, and, and if you're not, if you're not mesmerized by it, I, I mean, I don't know what else is, I don't know. I dunno what else is as interesting as this. There's certainly no, there's certainly no fiction that's as interesting as this right now.

It so it, so it is, it is, you know, let's, let's bring it back to media. And we should be talking about media. This is the biggest media story I have ever seen, bar no question. There's trillions of dollars at stake. There are empires at stake. You know, there is a new era coming, and it's all gonna play out right in front of us, you know, through our fingertips, you know, through our, through the clips that we take.

it's, awesome.

[00:09:57] Brian2: and you're short America in this narrative.

[00:10:00] Nick: I'm actually not, I'm not sure American, Chamath from the oil in podcast that he was Short Wall Street, long Main Street. So I look, I, I did own a bunch of copper stocks. And I, and I don't, I don't see why this should be so bad for, you know, if this ends up with a devaluation, let's say a devaluation of 50% of the dollar. After all the tariff dance is complete, we just end up with, you know what, this is a, this is a, this is unstable. The markets need to move into e equilibrium. And the way for them to move into equilibrium is that the dollar must drop because it's ridiculous that America is running in a deficit in the agricultural trade, right now, when America ought to be one of the great agricultural suppliers to the entire planet. So if you bring down the dollar by 50%, I don't think that's so bad for the fracking industry, not necessarily natural gas industry. Is that so bad for corn? Is that so bad for Iowa? Is that so bad for American manufacturers? Is that so bad for Arizona? Now for the inland states, this could be fine.

[00:11:05] Brian2: It's gonna be not as fun to go to Italy in the summer. I gotta say in the 

[00:11:09] Nick: Are you, y'all have been lauding it over us for way too, way too long. D don't, don't you think that those euro pores insults were, you know, they, they just kinda passed through us without, any feeling, any feelings being 

hurt. You know, you you you were all calling us Europas. 

Both

[00:11:28] Brian2: of us, 

[00:11:28] Nick: both liberals and conservatives.

[00:11:30] Brian2: Hey, I just want go to Sicily, Nick. I don't know why the hostility.

[00:11:34] Troy3: I think of you as a local, 

and when you, when they asked them, but the, the, one of the funny things that I thought you did in a, in an article I read somewhere, is that you apologized for sending us the Irish and Scott that became hillbillies.

[00:11:50] Nick: Uh, 

[00:11:50] Troy3: Is that, is that.

[00:11:52] Nick: but I mean, it was, it was when, it was when, uh, Vance and the others were, big into thank yous. You know, like the, you know, Europe should have been, you know, the

French should have said, thank you for saving them from speaking German. And Zelensky should have been more thankful for, you know, for sending thousands of men to their death to, to save Europe from a Russian invader. So, it was, it was around the time of the thank yous and I was running through all the things that I thought America should thank Europe for,

you know, patients wait, that we don't pull out our money from the US stock market and treasuries just like that. That we don't respond to every outrageous insult, from Vance, or mask or Rubio or Trump. you know, in the same tone that they would, that they were delivered. You know, there's a lot of, there's a lot of anger, in, in Europe about this kind of, this constant, this, the, the succession of insults, they're just like, continues. It, it's, it's demeaning. And if you think that people are just gonna switch back to the way things were before you got another thing coming. But anyway, I was in the middle of this rant and then I realized, well actually we didn't really send them all our best. You know, like, may, let's, let's be, let's be, let's be a little bit honest here. That, yeah. Amongst the kind of the Jewish scientists. And you know, the hardworking Germans after the 1848 revolution. And so we send you some, we, we send you some high quality human capital that, that's for sure. But you know what, there, there were a lot of panelists, Sicilian peasants in the mix too.

And, and then, and then I think maybe, you know, maybe we're gonna find the most expensive of all with the, with the Scots-Irish, the Borderers, you know, who were pernicious and pious even before they arrived on the East Coast. And when they did arrive on the East coast, they were pushed, you know, by the peace loving Quakers, by the coastal elites at that time.

You know, nudged them gently up the valleys, you know, so they could, they could die fighting in the Indians on the frontier. And that and that original betrayal in America, you know, people talk about, you know, whatever the original Sin of America was.

And, and there are several original sins to choose from. But I've, I've always thought that that original scene is one that, should be a little, a little stronger in the narrative, because that's the story of JD Vance's ancestors, you know, JD Vance's ancestors who, who arrived already despised, on the East Coast and then were pushed into the hills, by the Lowlanders that didn't want anything to do with them, with, with their fighty ways.

[00:14:32] Troy3: Do we have the Quakers to thank for that?

[00:14:34] Nick: I I think, I th I think it was both the Quakers in Pennsylvania and the, I guess the gentry in Virginia. But, but although definitely the Quakers, you should read Albian seed for the more, more detailed history of this.


[00:14:48] Denton Hedge Fund Tips
---

[00:14:48] Troy3: Well, Nick, if, if one wanted to participate in Nick Inc. In the future, do you, you trade on your own account? Do you create a Denton hedge fund? Do I, does my money fall yours, Nick? Or do I do I, put seed capital into the next kind of poly market esque AI assisted scenario, planning media,

[00:15:12] Nick: Oh, you know, you know all the lingo, you know all the lingo already.

[00:15:15] Troy3: right?

[00:15:17] Nick: So somebody's been doing some 

talking with the AI here.

[00:15:20] Troy3: a business coming? Is there a.

[00:15:23] Nick: Well, I mean, there's my business, which is, investing in my family's money. and so we have a, I guess a two month track record now, and I, I think I've disclosed all the trades. It's long BYD, the long zami, short Tesla, short apple, long gold, 

Think no. Oh, 

[00:15:43] Brian2: so you are short America. I mean, that's as short America as you can get.

[00:15:47] Nick: Oh, sorry.

Long, long grab in Southeast Asia too. Well, I, I, I wouldn't say that, I would say, I would actually say I, it is more like a, it's a rebalancing.

[00:15:56] Troy3: will you be taking visitors in Hungary?

[00:15:59] Nick: Yeah, I'm actually, I'm actually thinking of opening up a little space, a little cafe,

you know, just, you know, just like in the old days when news and financial speculation and coffee and maybe a 

drink up to 6:00 PM

[00:16:11] Troy3: our friend Andre Baz, is he, he's a great Hungarian, is he not?

[00:16:15] Nick: He is a Hungarian. I, I, I, I don't think I'm friends with him. 

[00:16:18] Troy3: Can connect you if you're interested, but is there a way that we could maybe get him to decorate your, your, your new hotel?

[00:16:25] Nick: does, does he spend much time in Budapest?

[00:16:28] Troy3: I, you know, I don't know. I only see him on Shelter Island where he has a, a little hotel

[00:16:33] Nick: Well, look, I, I'll, things don't take too long to spin up in, in Hungary. So, come over to Budapest in September and we'll do a, we'll do a podcast from over there.

[00:16:41] Troy3: Oh, that's a great thing. Maybe we could do a little conference over there on, media next.

[00:16:45] Nick: the, the space is very small deliberately, so, it fits maybe a, a dozen people participating and maybe a few more watching.

[00:16:53] Troy3: maybe we could take it out of your space and get a hotel or something, you

[00:16:57] Nick: I, I can, I actually like the idea of something small.

Let's just, that's, that's just me. I, I'm, I'm, I'm not, I'm not looking to do an events business. But, but, but, but, but the idea, but the idea of, you know, you put out information and you get information. We're, we're just trading, you know?

[00:17:11] Troy3: I wanna track your trades, Nick. I wanna start putting 'em in. I want to know when you got in.

[00:17:16] Nick: let me see whether I can dig out the dates. The, the, the, the, the, the call you, I mean, you can, you can more or less work it out by the, the, the BBYD, oh, I forgot. Tencent, BYD, Zami and Tencent, was at the beginning of February,

maybe the second week of February.

[00:17:31] Troy3: When did you short Apple?

[00:17:33] Nick: More recently,

I think, I think that was the, it was people like DHH and Gruber, like some, some real hardcore apple fanboy turning against it. 

[00:17:43] Troy3: Gruber gave them a little slap a couple of weeks.

[00:17:45] Nick: I, I mean, I, I think those kind of things, those things are meaningful, you know, that, like, that that's a, that's a, that's a meaningful event when somebody like Gru turns. And then there's also a very interesting, Palmer lucky, interview on YouTube with a YouTube podcaster in which he, he has a, a whole six minute, you, you've got to, you've got to look at this thing. It's a six minute playbook on how Xi Jinping could shut Apple down with a, one signature on a piece of paper. You know, you know, basically how you know the design in China, the designed in California. It means nothing. What matters is that it's, it's made in China, and China could seize the supply chain, at a moment's notice.

It, it would be easy for them to do. And you know, as long as that's the case, they just

[00:18:32] Brian2: Yeah. 

[00:18:32] Nick: ball balls in their hand.

[00:18:34] Troy3: Well, you know, I like a Palmer, rant as much as the next guy.

[00:18:38] Nick: Oh, he's, he's awesome. if, if America, if America had a hundred more like him, a hundred more Travis Colonics, Palmer Lucks and Elon Musks, if it, if it had a hundred more of them, you know, those kind of a Rian figures who, who don't give a fuck, like then, then I might actually have some second thoughts about my bets.

You know, 

[00:19:00] Troy3: Brian, for, for your edification, if we want to tie this conversation up in a bow, it to me, there needs to be a media layer on top of Nick Denton, because most people aren't gonna do that work. They're not gonna, they're not gonna abstract the insights out of the Palmer Lucky conversation. They're not gonna follow Matt and glaciers, and someone needs to make sense of that.

And if you tied that in with stock trading information, I think we could make an interesting media product.

[00:19:29] Nick: There hasn't been a, a good new financial publication.

[00:19:33] Troy3: Do you

follow this account called

Unusual Whales?

[00:19:37] Nick: yeah,

I mean if you, I think the following list is public there. And that's basically everybody I follow. So you can pretty much get a, get a very, very clear sense of who I'm paying attention to. It's basically right, right wing thinkers, traders, some Musk fan boys, some, some swing voters in the teal world. A few financial journalists. Yeah, that's, that's pretty much 


[00:19:59] Right vs Left in Alternative Media
---

[00:19:59] Brian2: One final media question is like, why do you think there's so, there's so much more energy in the sort of right wing part of this alternative media than there is in left wing. Because I mean, it was kind of the opposite 

[00:20:13] Nick: was it

[00:20:14] Brian2: I feel 

[00:20:15] Nick: I I, I, I I haven't found anything that the left has said interesting in, I know several decades.

[00:20:21] Brian2: Oh, really? 

[00:20:22] Nick: I mean, sto like Matt Sto and some of the anti-monopoly people, it's the same tune. But yeah, it's a good tune and I agree with them. The Neoliberals, yes, I, the abundance agenda is awesome.

I believe in the housing, housing theory of everything. Yeah. I'm like, sign me up. I'm there. I'm there, I'm there. I'm a yimby. I'm a total yimby. I love the Ybi.

[00:20:44] Troy3: it really is ridiculous

[00:20:46] Nick: I, I mean, I'm sorry, I'm not gonna put my, you've just woken up now in 2025 and, you know, in the final years of the empire, with a plan to turn it around that, you know, probably your last chance was back in 2008, but that was probably the last 

[00:21:02] Troy3: or, or there's something wrong with the system,

[00:21:05] Nick: Well, obviously,

[00:21:06] Troy3: obviously. 

[00:21:08] Brian2: But the fact that like podcasting is so filled with, with. Right wing figures versus left wing figures, that that doesn't surprise you at all. That's par for the course, I guess. 

[00:21:18] Nick: no, I mean, they, they've been a lot more, I mean, look at my follow list. There's, I, I think there's barely a left winger in there. 

And, and, and, and, that's not, I mean, I mean maybe that's just me being ideological about it. But I think, I think I'm curious enough. I, I'm curious for different points of view and interesting facts and insights that I might not have otherwise follow. And, and I will take them from absolutely anywhere. You know, I'm completely in, I'm an information omnivore. I will, I'll take it all. And I just don't see anything interesting that's coming from them. I look, I, I like Mad Gazi, president for life. I'll, I'll, I'll, if I was voting in America, I would vote for him. There's no way he can ever stand for election, you know, he's a Singapore kinda leader, not, not an American kinda leader.

[00:22:00] Troy3: well, maybe, maybe. Nick, how's your Hungarian? 

[00:22:03] Nick: It's okay. 

[00:22:04] Troy3: Do you think you could run for president?

[00:22:07] Nick: No, I, I used to Christian, I, I, I was colleagues with Christian Freeland, who later became can Canadian finance minister and, and Trump's Beno Benoit.

and, and I guess she's an enemy of Putin as a Ukrainian, and, and we, we used to fantasize about what we would do if we were, if we had control of one of these, these European countries like I guess Hungary or Ukraine. But thank God they never gave it to us because we were, I think, I, I think far too detached from the everyday, to, it was very 

[00:22:39] Troy3: Right. Will this move require you to give up? Do you have American citizenship?

[00:22:44] Nick: No, I never, I never took it.

[00:22:45] Troy3: So, so you don't have to pay American taxes?

[00:22:48] Nick: Right. Now I do. Yeah,

[00:22:50] Brian2: Troy, are you? Are you anything you need to 

[00:22:54] Troy3: I made a big mistake because I was being a little idealistic and I, 

[00:22:58] Brian2: You went right for the taxes. That's all I know is there's 

[00:23:00] Troy3: No, but I'm a You know, I'm Canadian, but I have an, I'm now an American citizen. Yes.

[00:23:04] Brian2: Are you gonna renounce your citizenship for tax reasons? 

[00:23:07] Troy3: I never said that. I'm just gonna move to Miami just like

[00:23:10] Brian2: yeah, that's fine. That's an in between. 

[00:23:12] Nick: We'll, we'll make, we'll make sure you make whatever move, before the exit taxes Come in.

[00:23:15] Troy3: that's a good point.

[00:23:17] Brian2: All right. Should we leave it there? Nick, thank you so much for taking the time. 

[00:23:20] Troy3: Thanks, man.

[00:23:21] Nick: Good, good talking, Trey. 


[00:23:22] AB Debrief
---

[00:23:22] Troy3: Do we want to join?

[00:23:24] Brian2: If he'll come on. Sure. 

[00:23:26] Troy3: Maybe we can debrief with anonymous banker 

[00:23:28] AB: hey 

[00:23:29] Troy4: You know what, we had a nice conversation ab with, one and only Nick Denton. He has a lot of big theories. He's short on a lot of things. He's short

[00:23:37] Brian2: Well, first of all, he's over media. He, he can't, he, he doesn't, he doesn't wanna talk about the media business, but he likes media to make money still. And it seems like 

[00:23:45] Troy4: Well, he liked, he thinks that the skills of journalists are relevant to making money 

[00:23:50] AB: Yeah. me. 

So he said that, you mean you don't need to be a journalist to 

make money in media? Is that his point? 

[00:23:55] Troy4: well, if he was gonna make money in media? he'd do the ultimate affiliate, which is trade Stocks. Right. He's, he's short on Apple, by the way, ab, he's short on Tesla. Obviously he's long on all the Chinese car brands

[00:24:10] Brian2: he is going into gold. He is. He's got a prepper portfolio. 

[00:24:14] AB: Did he say anything on Reddit? 

[00:24:16] Troy4: no, 

he didn't mention

[00:24:17] AB: Got 

[00:24:17] Troy4: but he's very long 

on 

community media and media discussion as media, which I thought was a really great part of the conversation. Brian,

[00:24:26] AB: mean, it's interest. I think they said discord. Discord just filed or will go public later this year at some point. So I think there's communities popping up everywhere. There's a lot of places, I think based on your ages in mind, that we don't necessarily understand the communities. Like I, I can't use Discord but there's a lot of connectivity happening, people talking, chatting. 

I don't know.

[00:24:47] Brian2: I'm glad you can't use Discord because Alex, who had a hard stop, so he couldn't be here. He was always giving me shit because, like I said, discord was just fried. My brain, I can't, I can't handle 

[00:24:58] Troy4: Hold it. Did, did ab, did AB just put himself in our age cohort?

[00:25:03] AB: I'm 

one below 

[00:25:05] Brian2: Two below I'm, I'm old. I'm old. 

[00:25:08] AB: Yeah. But it's, it's weird when you use these, 

[00:25:10] Troy4: I'm not, I'm not a 

boomer Brian. 

[00:25:12] Brian2: So Anna said, I said we might do a Gen X episode. She said, isn't Troy a boomer? 

[00:25:19] Troy4: That's 

[00:25:19] Brian2: before be. I laughed so hard. 

[00:25:21] AB: I think what's always interesting is when you try to use a product that is getting a ton of traction and you can't, you just, it doesn't make sense. 

It's, it's a weird thing like Snapchat for example, like, I just, it just,

doesn't work for me. So. 


[00:25:34] Gen X & The Digital Wreckage
---

[00:25:34] Troy4: Yeah. Well, Brian, I, I just wanna go back to the Gen X thing for a minute. 'cause I was reminded today at a meeting I had that the latchkey kids that are Gen X are now having to kind of drag the bodies from, you know, the digital wreckage and find, find new ways to eat, eat, hunt, eat and kill, or the other way around.

Kill, hunt, kill, eat. Yes, there's more and more of us.

[00:26:00] Brian2: Wait, explain that. What, does that mean?

[00:26:01] Troy4: What, what I mean is there's no institutional protection for any of the Gen Xers anymore. It's over.

[00:26:09] Brian2: No, this is, this is all I, the New York Times had a great, piece that got sent to me by like several people about the creative class of Gen X that got the sort of their knees cut out for, from under them right when they're in the prime earning years. It was a tough one. 

[00:26:26] AB: I can tell you from what I'm seeing, like a lot of these traditional media, either the public companies are gonna be splitting themselves apart again to find value or any combination is so much of the potential value upside after the combination or decoupling is through headcount reductions. And it's that that middle staff, right, that are people.

Late thirties, maybe forties to mid fifties, who, like you said, Brian, are in their higher earning years and there's just duplicative staff. Um, there's ways that they're in technology is getting necessarily, they don't are necessarily needed anymore. And so, and there's not new net new jobs in traditional media space.

Obviously this happened in newspapers, it's happening in tv, radio, there's just, there's not a need to have. Extra bodies around it. It's the only way when you have headwinds from advertising revenue and declining audiences to make these businesses work. Last week, I think it was reported that Apollo's gonna start shopping Cox Media Group, which they acquired, I think four to five years ago.

And the question everyone has is like, who's going to buy that? The strategics in this space might get some regulatory relief from Congress to be able to buy more TV stations, but otherwise, there's not another private equity firm that's there to buy it. And when a strategic buys it, they're gonna be buying basically stations that they already like.

They're gonna be buying a station in a market where they might already have a station. And So the only way to make it. From an MA perspective is to just cut a bunch. You're basically combining both stations together. You're ripping out the entire back office, and the only thing that

you're keeping separate is the news product in a little bit of ad sales. 

[00:28:05] Brian2: So this is like the time for the, I mean, we talked about this with the cleanup, right? And this is going to be, I guess what you're saying is it's gonna be broader than just some like struggling digital media publishers. 

[00:28:18] AB: Yeah. I mean it's, it's already happened a lot in the newspaper space. It, it happened in radio. It's going to happen now in tv. The main reason why it's happening now in TV is there's, there was a lifeline that traditional or local TV got, which is in the form of the retransmission fees, uh, distributors . And what had happened is at the beginning when they first got those fees. All the, big networks started charging an affiliate fee. So they were get, so A, B, C, NB, C, they were getting part of their retransmission fee. and over time the amount that the kind of the corporate overlord was taking from the local TV station has crept up.

And so that line of revenue has gone from a big contributor to the bottom line to, to basically nothing. And so the only real way to make these stations work and politicals up and down over time. But the

only way to make this these stations work 

is to just cut 

costs out. It's like the last of all the local media. 

[00:29:11] Troy4: and the pol the political money was a big part of the

[00:29:13] Brian2: Yeah. And also, I don't know if the political money comes back as strong because Trump and the Republicans prove that TV advertising in, in, in politics is totally overrated to some degree. I mean, he was able to, he's a unique candidate. He was able to earn a lot of it, but they got outspent like tremendously and they poured a lot of money and energy into, you know, get out the vote.

And, and those, the kind of like ground operations, that they were always weaker on, I thought. But it's interesting to see how that'll affect the TV market. 

[00:29:45] AB: Yeah. I mean, there's a dirty little secret. A lot of general, they're called GCs of campaigns take a percentage fee from traditional TV 

ad spend, and so 

[00:29:55] Brian2: They're all loaded for that. I mean, this is a best business to be some political consultant and be like, yeah, I 

got just the guy who can handle the, the media bar. 

[00:30:01] AB: Yeah, and then their buddy from college makes the TV commercials, and so they spend 80% on ad buys. They take, I think, less from the digital advertising, so I think there's still a longer tail in. Political ad buying, but the rest of the market, like for e everybody, even like smaller advertisers, the internet's easier and easier to advertise on.

So I think long term and just the number of subs is going down, the number of subscribers, I think, I remember looking at the research when full distribution was over a hundred million households. It's now down to like 55. And at the time everyone thought, okay, this is like, I'm, someone's predicting it's gonna go down 

five to 10% a year.

And, and it's happened. And people are getting

reconnected in a lot different ways. 

[00:30:44] Troy4: Hey, ab, what pronouns do you prefer?

[00:30:48] AB: He, He, 

[00:30:49] Brian2: and b. 

[00:30:50] AB: he, 

we're in Trump's Trump Trumpland. So 

[00:30:53] Troy4: Okay. 


[00:30:54] This Week's Market
---

[00:30:54] Troy4: what else hit the market this week? AB. 

[00:30:57] AB: I dunno. I got the Cox. The Cox Media stuff is people are trying to figure out what's gonna happen there. I think there's, there's more news on the TikTok stuff of who's in that process. It sounds like they haven't really gotten that much information, but it sounds like there's more investment 

firms trying to pair up. As we talked about before, it's a, it's a pretty large purchase. 

[00:31:16] Troy4: Any smaller stuff. AB 

[00:31:17] AB: I think you'll see a couple of these like. Remaining orphan 

digital assets get sold in the next month or two. I know a lot of these processes are just finishing

up. 

[00:31:25] Troy4: you do those though. That's your stock trade, right? Ab,

[00:31:29] Brian2: Orphan digital assets. What is, can you define an orphan digital asset? 

[00:31:33] AB: just think of like the platforms that got built 

up. Five years ago that have been se Yeah. So orphan like at Yahoo, you know, they have much stronger or larger strategic priorities. And so if something's non-core that's losing money, that, you know, they're, they're selling these assets and 

I think the values that they're selling them at are pretty low.

They're just trying to get 'em to a home where 

someone's not gonna just completely blow it

[00:31:57] Troy4: Now, did they shuffle that one off to the glue factory 

or what? What's your take on 

that one?

[00:32:02] AB: Yeah.

but they're unsustainable businesses, so it's sort of the only place they can end up by Glue Factory. it's just operators that are gonna spend less on content, lean into different distribution platforms like Google News and Google Discover, and then probably add a bunch more ad units to the page. 

[00:32:22] Brian2: Yeah. 

[00:32:23] AB: Yeah. 

but that's, that's the only way that traditional or digital media works these days. I, I don't think there's too many profitable people that don't have subscriptions that are actually 

making it work.

I, 

[00:32:34] Troy4: You know, that's, it's funny, I just wonder if slathering a bunch of, ad units and 

floating video players on a webpage makes anything more effective, it seems like a shell game. 

[00:32:45] AB: Yeah. And it's gonna be more of a shell game when half the traffic are, or, or more are, are the different agents running around retrieving information 

for people and it's not a real person? Oh, 

[00:32:57] Troy4: what the most dangerous thing is, is 

that publishers are consoled by Google Discovery traffic as a core serp, high intent traffic wanes, and they're just gonna get hit again when the whole page changes and discover evaporates.

[00:33:16] Brian2: discover is like the Achilles heel that's keeping afloat A lot of 

[00:33:20] AB: Everybody, everybody right now, because if you, you think about it, you're running at a 20%. We're just gonna take some very broad tr assumptions here, but if you're running at a 20 to 30% margin in your business and you're all programmatic revenue, and Google Discover is 20 to 30% of your traffic, if that goes away, your business just went unprofitable.

I think the deal to talk 

about this week is the Rocket Mortgage deal with Mr. Cooper. I don't think most people have ever heard of Mr. Cooper. 

[00:33:46] Troy4: Was Mr. Cooper the banker on 

it? 

[00:33:49] AB: Exactly. I did work for Mr. 

Cooper before, but, so 

[00:33:53] Brian2: Rocket Mortgage for those who don't know. 

[00:33:55] AB: public company, big, big mortgage company. I think one of the top 

three or top five. 

[00:34:00] Brian2: Yeah. but they've been buying assets. 

[00:34:02] AB: So they bought 

Redfin

[00:34:03] Brian2: What 

[00:34:03] AB: you know. 

[00:34:04] Brian2: do? 

[00:34:04] AB: Was meant to make the, yeah, it was meant to make the home buying experience better. So they had their own agents. They were like, look, most people don't like this experience. Most consumers are finding the houses on their own. Why do they need an agent? So let's just charge less. It worked. Okay. They hired some of their own agents.

But I think what this year's turning into, there was like a headline that said, deal volume is less in Q1 this year than it was last year. I think that that's. An easy headline. I think it's a little bit different when you look by market, because some markets are up, some markets are down. But what you're seeing with like a rocket mortgage, this sort of deal is similar to like the gen digital money line deal, where people that have large audiences online and that are starting to transact more online, want to basically own the full ecosystem.

So with Rocket Mortgage combining with Redfin and Mr. Cooper, which is a big loan servicing business, you basically complete the funnel. So one of the biggest things in in mortgage is refinancing and, and people believe as the rates go down, that refinancing business will get bigger and bigger. And so you can see rocket Mor mortgages in the perfect position because they know they can con contact the consumer because they have all this loan servicing data.

They now own a part of their business, Redfin, that makes money on future sales or future buying. And so it's this really. We'll see if it works. But it's a very large company in the real estate space that basically owns every single part of the consumer journey and the lifecycle. And it's a, it should be a little bit more immune to having to pay Meta or Google for net new customers or any other person in this landscape that drives leads.

So that's sort of the thesis. Their belief is even if we can get a little bit of Mr. Cooper's business to help to refinance via Rocket Mortgage and our platform, that won't be paying anything for customer acquisition. And so it will be, it will drop straight to the bottom line in terms of contribution.

And then owning Redfin is like the perfect way because it's like you get pre-approved for a house. I think a lot of times people take that pre-approval and then use that bank to finance their eventual purchase. So you can see when you're looking for a house, you'll automatically know what you can pay.

Hopefully the data gets good enough where you're already approved and instead of waiting 60 days, you can close much quicker. 'cause you'll probably have already uploaded all your information. You're basically collapsing the home, fine, finding part with the financing part,

and then it'll be serviced by Mr.

Cooper. I.

[00:36:27] Brian2: I 

mean, does this fit, is this a media business? I'm just wondering. 

[00:36:30] Troy4: it is. It's median transactions.

[00:36:33] Brian2: Well, that's what I, I, I sort of, to tie it back to like Nick, that's what I I sort of, you know, media has never, I don't say never, but it's, it's very powerful still. It's just, it doesn't work as a standalone business in most cases.

[00:36:47] AB: I think the reason why it's scary for media companies is, you know, rocket Mortgage, I'm sure sponsors some sort of sort of sports stadium or something like that and they probably pump a lot into different. Publications where they think the consumers are gonna be looking for homes or whatever, high propensity to, to get a mortgage.

And so as they have these ecosystems, they'll need 

to spend less to find new customers.

[00:37:09] Troy4: Well, that's a good ab 

I look forward to getting your feedback on the Nick Denton conversation.

[00:37:15] AB: good. So what else is he? Long Gold. What else? 

[00:37:19] Brian2: gold? I, that's all we talked about. Yeah. Well, Tencent, BYD 

[00:37:23] Troy4: I'm gonna get his portfolio and, start tracking it. 

[00:37:27] AB: Is he in Newsmax? 

[00:37:29] Troy4: No, 

[00:37:29] AB: Okay. 

[00:37:30] Brian2: so, 


[00:37:31] Outro
---

[00:37:31] Troy: ​That's it for this episode of people versus algorithms where each week we uncover patterns shaping media culture and technology. Big thanks as always to our producer, Vanja Arsenov. She always makes us a little clearer and more understandable and we appreciate her very, very much. If you're enjoying these conversations, we'd love for you to leave us a review.

It helps us get the word out and keeps our community growing. Remember, you can find People vs. Algorithms on Apple Podcasts, on Spotify, and now on YouTube. Thanks for listening and we'll see you again next week. 

[00:38:05] Troy4: that's it. Thanks guys.

[00:38:07] Brian2: All right. Bye. 

