PVA S1E18
PVA S1E18
[00:00:00] Alex:
I thought it was cool that there was a self-driving stroller, finally, a self-driving, you can just let the baby go
Yeah, I mean it, it means you can be an absentee parent like much earlier than you used to be, which is
[00:00:15] Troy: I mean, if there was a self-driving stroller when my kids were young, I would've been like smoking cigarettes in the park.
[00:00:44] Brian: Welcome to People Versus Algorithms, a show about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Marcy. I write the Rebooting Newsletter and have a podcast with the same name. I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young and Alex Schleifer, former head of design at Airbnb, and founder of Universal Entities.
I am fresh off of c e s where I saw no robots at all, but I definitely got a coffee behind a guy who was just wrapping up a big night. We're gonna talk about everything that went down at c e s, uh, both from a tech angle as well as from the media and advertising angle. Since it has become a go-to event for media and ad executives to go and spend nearly all of their time in suites doing meeting.
It's a very strange thing. We're also gonna dip into ai, which is set to be everywhere this year and is already eliciting. Access, excitement, I believe. Troy got me into crypto, so I'm gonna try to take this one easy, although I do think AI is the real deal as opposed to the monkey JPEGs. So let's get into it.
Let's start with cs. What, what I find interesting about Cs is it's multiple different, it's like an entire universe and the technology part is almost entirely separate from the media and advertising part. So let, let's actually start on the tech side, cuz Alex, I wanna get your sort of take on.
On what technology was shown there, but also the role of CES at all because it doesn't seem like it serves the original purpose, even though it's bigger than it's ever been.
[00:02:18] Alex: Yeah, it's an interesting show because I always gotta be really excited about it. And then I also find it very frustrating because so much of what they show, I think is landfill. You know, it shows that a lot of technology companies are. A little stuck. And they don't know where to add more technology.
You know, e everything that you see wants to be a phone, every car, every fridge, every tv, just wants to be a phone. And the reason they wanna be a phone is because they wanna be able to charge that. Good, good. 30% on any app you buy on it or anything. You tap. So this year
[00:02:52] Troy: Also because Alex phones are batteries and screens and software.
[00:02:57] Alex: Yeah, I mean, but I think the software layer, the marketplace layer, you know, uh, bmw, and other German car makers have already said that they wanna turn their cars into phones. They already said that they want charge for features. And this year it's been, another series of and it seems to be recurrent now.
It's like slide upgrades to TVs. So TVs are better than last year, right? So they have, you know, TVs with wireless H D M I or, or a higher resolution, some technologies that are not required like, fridges with giant screens on it, cars that change color and display your N F T in the window.
And then, the odd useful thing, like the thing that, analyzes your urine, you know, the
[00:03:38] Troy: Thank God there's a new use case for NFTs. Forgot
[00:03:41] Alex: Yeah. God, you know what, uh, BMW didn't mention that it was an nft, but it was obviously meant to be an NFT announcement and they just called it a digital avatar.
[00:03:51] Troy: Yeah, but that iVision D thing, that BMW car with the 280 panels, that was badass, that's gonna turn the streets into a circus.
[00:03:59] Alex: That's never gonna come out. That's vaporware,
[00:04:01] Brian: Yeah,
[00:04:01] Troy: it.
It's coming out next year. I'm
[00:04:03] Alex: Oh my God, you're
[00:04:04] Troy: I've already got it. I'm
on the
[00:04:05] Alex: gonna, it's gonna come out when Elon fixes
[00:04:08] Brian: yeah, so I'm going through the history of cs. You know, it began in the 1960s. I didn't know it was this, this old, the, the VCR was actually unveiled here by Phillips.
[00:04:18] Alex: What was the last good new technology like the VCR and build that cs?
[00:04:23] Brian: That's, this is the, the point that I think is, is actually an interesting one. Get, we'll get back to the, the refrigerators that want to be phones. Cuz that's interesting too. But I, I sense that you're a little, disillusioned with the state of the technology industry. It might be because of the
[00:04:35] Troy: I mean, in fairness, Alex is disillusioned with a lot of things.
[00:04:40] Brian: Right, because you were tweeting earlier about how like you know the best minds at Google were like optimizing ads. Maybe this will get like, it seems the technology industry itself, and I think there's a good case to be made. That it's hitting this weird, like adolescence or maybe it's just middle aged malaise in which look at all the lashing out going on with the best and the brightest of Silicon Valley are spending all of their time, talking about content moderation and quote unquote the media.
Like, the iPhone was the latest and greatest big thing outta Silicon Valley, the tech industry. And I was reading this earlier, I forget who it is. It could just be entering, you know, middle-aged where they're gonna be growth stocks. It's gonna be about like dividends and maybe it's best days are behind it.
[00:05:26] Alex: I wonder if it's. Maybe, I do think we're seeing, a new kind of blue sky green field. Whatever you want to call it. Open up around software with ai. And I do feel that a lot of the companies who are building hardware, or cars or fridges, have been looking to software as a way to expand their business because, you know, software is great margins and they all want to be in that business, and so you kind of see them.
Scrambling, trying to build shit that nobody needs, right? Like putting a screen on the fridge and then they latch onto NFTs and now they're latching onto ai.
[00:06:02] Cold open Cut from here
[00:06:02] Brian: But isn't this also, isn't it also like, I mean, Technology itself is like an ingredient to other industries, and I think that's the next phase in large part. Like instead of dictating everything like you, you talk about like cars? Yes. Cars are hardware and software.
My, the problem is like it's more cars. You're seeing this with Teslas like stock, they're coming back down to like car valuations, not to
[00:06:25] Troy: Okay, but just let's keep going guys. Like seriously, you put grumpy pants on the like is, you know, was CS interesting
[00:06:33] Brian: flew Spirit Air. Okay. I think I'm in a good
[00:06:35] Troy: Alright. I'm not, you're not the grumpy pants. It's Alex, but like we got all these crazy folding screens. They're super interesting. We got the yoga book from Lenovo.
That's interesting. Uh, we have a new turntable for Sonos that's wireless. That's super cool. More importantly on the tech innovation side, are your devices in your home that do home automat? Can finally fucking talk to each other with this new protocol called matter, which means that your Google thing can talk to your Apple thing, they can talk to your Samsung thing, they can talk to, you know, your whatever else thing.
And that's cool because like in my house I sometimes I don't know who to ask to shut the lights off
[00:07:14] Alex: Well, yes and yes. Yeah, yeah. No, but
[00:07:16] Troy: I want that. I fucking love that stuff. Not only that, Alex, I can now pee. I can now pee into my toilet and get back data on my iPhone.
[00:07:27] Brian: I'm gonna get complaint
[00:07:28] Alex: I did mention that as the only thing that I felt was like useful. Let's go over some of these. A lot of these kind of Lenovo fucking yoga books and folding screens are technology still looking for use case that nobody has figured out. There's nothing where you say, oh my God, this solves so many problems.
Secondly, the matter stuff is a software layer that has been, you know, talked about for the last two years. And it's coming out, it's been coming out for a while. You know, I already have matter stuff in house. This is not new technology and once again, it's a software improvement.
[00:08:00] Troy: You have it. I don't.
[00:08:02] Alex: but with the, and the smart home stuff remains kind of, everything looks like it's what I'm seeing a lot of is like technology trying. You know, shoved into something where it doesn't need it, no clear use cases, and a lot of technology that gets bought that has a lifespan that is much shorter than it used to be. So like your fridge with an Android tablet in it is
[00:08:22] Troy: Okay. I mean, that's kind of cool if you wanna look at the weather on the fridge. But Alex, we can print a kidney.
[00:08:29] Alex: Oh no,
[00:08:30] Troy: pretty cool.
[00:08:31] Alex: The health stuff is cool.
[00:08:33] Troy: Like I just 3D printed a new liver cuz mine got damaged.
[00:08:40] Brian: Yeah, I, I, I'm not holding my breath for when you can 3D
[00:08:43] Alex: No, I mean, I mean the health stuff is, is cool and exciting, but I, you know, I think I
[00:08:50] Brian: is, it's like the, the I, okay, let's take the health stuff, right? Like heavily regulated industry, like the tech people are not gonna be able to disrupt health. I mean, we saw how that went with Theranos and like to me it's just, I know Trey, I'm not, I'm trying to be like, not be grumpy, but like a lot of this is like tech hitting the reality that its best days are behind it.
[00:09:11] Troy: When was the last time you could get a health reading by?
[00:09:18] Brian: The, your urine is tested all the time. What are you talking about?
[00:09:21] Troy: but every day you just pee and it gives you a reading on your phone.
[00:09:25] Brian: Eh?
[00:09:26] Alex: I mean that, that's pretty cool. I'm into.
[00:09:29] Troy: I'm into that too. And you combine that with like gut biome stuff, like that's working on your stomach chemistry and you start to, you know, there's, there's lots of practical stuff there.
[00:09:40] Brian: Yeah, I
[00:09:41] Alex: But, but Troy?
[00:09:42] Brian: you get out of the apps and games and stuff, no offense to the games and Silicon Valley
[00:09:46] Troy: You're
[00:09:47] Brian: to
[00:09:47] Troy: really
[00:09:48] Brian: What?
[00:09:48] Troy: really trying not to offend. You're like, you're not trying to offend anyone today. Right?
[00:09:53] Alex: Wow.
[00:09:54] Troy: And by the way, when I referred to Grumpy, it wasn't you, it was to Alex, and he knows what I mean
[00:09:59] Brian: Sorry.
[00:09:59] Troy: And it's in, in the most loving way.
[00:10:02] Alex: I mean, I'm just being I don't know, consistent with my opinion on like technology that is inherently useless and it's gonna end up as a dead LSD screen
[00:10:11] Brian: But when it, when technology needs to integrate within other industries, right. And that's where it gets really interesting when it integrates with health, when it integrates with climate and stuff like this, the problem is, it, it comes in, it's not a disruptor, it's an ingredient. It's like we saw what happened in FinTech, you know, technology industry convinced itself that it was going to disrupt this like massive industry and stuff like this.
And, and what did we get? Buy now, pay later.
[00:10:41] Alex: Well, that's the, isn't that part of the, there's two issues that I see, right? The first one is, For some reason, nobody can build a good interface. Now, the, the, all the new interfaces in cars, on TVs, on fridges, they're all nightmares. All of them try to use one of them. They're all of them. You would never buy one for your parent or for somebody you know.
They're all nightmares. Number one, no good user experience. Number
[00:11:06] Troy: I'm not convinced there's an interface my my mother can use, but that's a different
[00:11:11] Alex: an iPad, an iPad. That's the interface anyone can use and, and
[00:11:15] Brian: You ever seen children using iPads? They're very expert.
[00:11:18] Alex: Did you ever see children reading a magazine and trying to use it like an iPad? Because it's, it's easier. That, that's number one. Nobody's building good interface. I don't know why. I've talked to some of these car companies.
They seem incapable of building something that isn't shit. I don't know why, but that's the case. Number two, everyone seems to end up to want to, uh, build something that has some sort of way of making money, either via a service so they try to shoehorn horn in or advertising. I, I don't wanna spend three grand on a TV and then have it spy on me and, and advertise when every time I try to change the settings.
But that's what happens today.
And It's and
[00:11:54] Brian: personalizing content and experiences for you.
[00:11:56] Alex: yes, it's, that's right. And, and both. And I think both of these things make all of these products inherently
[00:12:02] Troy: wait, who said the TV has to spy on you? I really am looking forward to the new 95 inch LG O L E D TV that doesn't have any wires. I think that'll be awesome. And I'm gonna watch, uh, the Wild Card weekend on something like that. That would be
great.
[00:12:17] Alex: Right,
[00:12:17] Brian: gonna get a bigger, bigger, living room
[00:12:20] Alex: but, but, but a, as you set it up, as you set up your television, as remember as you set up your television and agree to 7,000 lines of a terms of service that allows to, like scan the videos you're watching so that it can, you know, display content I'm sure you'll feel happy about not having those cable.
[00:12:39] Brian: wanna get back to Alex's malaise because I think I want to diagnose it. Cause I don't think you're, by nature a person prone to malaise, but maybe,
[00:12:48] Alex: I'm very optimistic.
[00:12:49] Troy: That's not true. He's depressive.
[00:12:51] Alex: What
[00:12:52] Brian: But I think, I think, I think what it, what it comes down to is, you know, it's like the utopian vision, uh, uh, California vision of like technology runs up against, these companies are being run like they're private equity now and like.
I wanna use this to go into AI because I think that's like a, an exciting new area, like genuinely exciting innovations that are going on there. And it leaves a question about like Google and AI and stuff like this, and these companies are now so high bound that like they actually. Probably have these innovations within them, but because for public policy reasons or because of their business, it disrupting their own business, that they haven't pushed forward with them.
You can't convince me that Google did not, does not have most of what like open AI has within it. Like I just don't believe that.
[00:13:45] Troy: nobody's trying to convince you of.
[00:13:47] Brian: Okay.
[00:13:48] Alex: It feels like Google has been, just sucking the internet of all its value and juice and then having created its own kind of self-generating money machine by turning everything into s e o and ad-serving, and it's. It's kind of starting to run dry and I'm so happy that a new technology will come up that can potentially like, give people an alternative.
Cuz right now Google's business model is based on its terrible ux. Like the experience of Google being bad is what makes its money. It's terrible. and Google used to be the most optimistic every, every week something would come out of Google that would make you happy and feel excited about the future every week.
And I don't think that any CEO can make the decisions that will get them out of there. It's a little bit like Intel, you know, 10 years ago
[00:14:38] Brian: Ooh, you know, you know when I knew. And then I'm gonna bring you
[00:14:41] Alex: to I'm gonna stop being so grumpy.
[00:14:43] Brian: Just to continue the grumpy thing for a minute. There was a moment when I knew that MySpace was gonna lose to Facebook, and it was when they had some ad exec who got up and he said, You know, we have new features that we will not ship until we find a brand to integrate with them.
I was like, oh, you guys are fucked. Are you seriously going to like, not ship features until Wendy's d figures out how they can brand it? Like, forget it,
[00:15:12] Troy: Okay. Well that's a good point. But I mean, just first of all, I have to tell you that over the years spending time with technology companies, , it was the people at Google that I always enjoyed spending time with most. I thought they were the most open-minded, I thought so many of them were, you know, deeply, deeply talented.
And it always felt to me a little bit more like an academic institution than a company. And it's of course, because it was filled with, you know, the smart kids and they were a wash and an easy faucet of money. And they had endeavor to create a certain type of culture.
So I always enjoyed interacting with Google and I think over the years they've made really good decisions and really remarkable products. I think the bind, other than the obvious, which is, you know, their business is based on clicks and search, is that abstracting from the publishing layer is a real conundrum.
And I just a little anecdote about that. They started doing, Pulling summary product reviews and buy now buttons out of the publisher pages in an attempt to make the search experience better for people looking for, you know, some kind of recommendation for a product. And the publishing industry went ballistic.
And because it was, you know, it obviously struck to the heart of how so many people made money with affiliate, and so we have. Uh, Google in single moves destroy entire categories of sites like the shopping sites, movie listings,, weather. There's all kinds of places that they've intervened and really had massive economic consequence.
But now here's the thing that I think happened this week, guys, is the pressure is, And this was the sort of thing that, you know, when we titled this section, everybody's freaking out about ai. Like just, I want to just kind of go over a couple of these things, right? So Google has made a bunch of good moves, including by the way, when they invested 650 million in Deep Mind.
If you looked at that, compared to the valuation at 29 billion for open. You know, that was obviously a really good investment that they made, and Google has broadened their business lines, and has deep integration into our brains, across Chrome, safari, Android, your home, you know, Google, YouTube, there's just a whole array of products that insulates them from.
but, but the consequences of search pressure are real and immediate. So what have we seen? Like everybody I talk to, whether they're content markers or ad startups or affiliate publishers or software companies are putting time and energy into this immediately. And it was like seeing, what's the name of that company, Brian?
Is it? The new search thing,Like today, you saw what it looks like to have an abstract that serves.
The, the search and then provides links underneath as well as citations.
And it's out there and it's gonna be out in another two months through Bing. So the pressure's real and it's immediate. And I think that the value proposition of the consumer is significantly different enough that you will switch,
[00:18:25] Brian: But like, I, I guess just to stick on, stick on this original point, which by, by the way, I'm very impressed that you've stuck with your thing about, like, flattering the powerful, but the, uh, a bit is only good, as good as how far you're willing to take it. But like, Tell me there's not gonna be like, uh, some sort of New York Times inside Google's disarray over AI story about how they had these innovations and didn't actually push them out for business and public policy reasons.
I'm pretty sure that story's gonna happen.
[00:18:53] Troy: It's already been
[00:18:53] Brian: And what does that say with the company? What does that say about the, the company's ability to lead innovation? To me it says that those days are over the days of it being an academic institution and all the, the different colored balls, now it's.
[00:19:06] Alex: But those days have been over. I think those days have been over for years. Right.
[00:19:10] Brian: to do the dividends.
[00:19:11] Alex: think the transition to alphabet hurt that a lot because the company didn't have a shared vision and they could kind of separate the thing that makes money from all the other things that don't. And it made all these other things feel really, you know, uh, like bad ideas.
So I don't know if they lost their way because they made so much money. The challenge I have with Google is, It's not only a company that's in decline and struggling to, kind of, come to terms with a new technology.
They actually did ruin the environment that they were existing in. I think they, Google fundamentally hurt the web by how it decided to build this ranking and how it decided to in. Website makers to build terrible websites. Google is the reason why we have so many terrible websites. I think Google is the reason why you have to read, you know, a 20 minute article before
[00:20:04] Troy: Or Apple
[00:20:05] Brian: The recipe, are they the reason
for the
[00:20:07] Alex: Why is Apple the
[00:20:08] Brian: Who's to
[00:20:09] Troy: Because Apple never ever supported the open web because Apple forced the app construct that bifurcated efforts everywhere and made, uh, all of the, the kind of discovery of applications run through their pipes and made it more difficult to be the creator of a consumer experience on the open web.
But Alex, I think your point Just wait, pause. Big concession ahead. Uh, I, I think your point about, you know, what we have created with Google search and the behavior that it's created is absolutely true. We have millions of smart people, or thousands at least, that create content every day, anticipating what people are gonna search.
And you know, slavishly creating under that paradigm. And I think. I think that you're right. I think
that it has had unintended consequences.
[00:21:06] Alex: And I think you're also right. Apple, by the way. I, I agree. I, I
[00:21:10] Troy: You see, Brian
[00:21:11] Alex: but Apple
[00:21:12] Brian: all to blame
[00:21:13] Alex: well, here's a, but here's maybe an
[00:21:15] Troy: blame power
[00:21:16] Alex: Apple has this, apple has been cultivating this walled garden, right? And they said that this is the, their future. So there's at least some honesty around that. Think Google's critical flaw is that they've been building an a business on top of the open web without maintaining the open web, right?
So they, they came in there, killed all the dodo, and now they're going hungry.
[00:21:35] Brian: Hmm.
[00:21:36] Alex: Or whatever, whatever animal got got killed by settlers. I don't know.
[00:21:41] Brian: Trey, what's your early take on Lake?
[00:21:44] Troy: I think it was the be the, the Beaver. We made too many hats. That's what
[00:21:48] Alex: that's a, that's a Canadian story.
[00:21:50] Brian: We, we, we've, we've talked about this a little bit, but I'm interested, in your conversations is there a lot of concern about like, look, publishers use SEO for a ton of their traffic. They have entire operations that are just about feeding the beast, using the search authority to get high ranking on searches and like, It works.
It's a business slide. If this is at risk, I mean publishers are really screwed.
[00:22:22] Troy: You know, just a little anecdote about that. I talked to the CEO of a company that. Runs, uh, affiliate marketplaces this week that, that I'm involved with. And the thing is, is highly profitable and I keep going to him and saying, dude, You have to be way more paranoid. I went to a management meeting with them and their, their, the team was giddy.
They were sort of like ranking so well and making so much money on so many terms. And I'm like, you guys, how many times have we had to see. , you know, businesses with their legs cut off underneath of them, you know, before you're gonna learn this lesson. We need to find a way to, to, to create value outside of just ranking in the Cerp page.
You need to be way more paranoid. So he calls me and we're talking on the phone and he says, you know, I looked at a bunch of our content and we keep ranking for it in these obscure terms. And I went and looked at the content. I happened to be looking for this product for my home, and I landed on one of our pages and it was absolute.
and we were ranking really high. And I went back to the team and I said, stop everything. We need to refactor all of our top pages and make them much, much, much better, and we need to be way more paranoid, which I was delighted to hear. But you're right. I mean, what's your question, just to get back to your question, Brian.
I don't know how that resolves. I think it resolves in all the ways that we're seeing now where publishers are endeavoring to build bigger direct audiences to get more, uh, intimacy through email to find, you know, how to spread themselves across more channels, which is so tiring as a publisher. But I'm telling you, it's, it's an anomaly to see a publishing business that has even 25% direct traffic
[00:24:10] Brian: Yeah,
[00:24:11] Alex: Mm-hmm.
[00:24:12] Brian: usually it's, it's a lot. it's, like 75%.
[00:24:15] Troy: yeah. Yeah. Well it's, it's usually direct is is somewhere between 10 and 15 at best.
[00:24:21] Brian: I mean that's gotta be worrisome. I don't know. It's just like, uh, I, it was one of the topics actually I'm gonna be addressing cuz they asked for it and going to talk to some German publishers.
[00:24:32] Alex: I mean, it's, it's, it's, it's hugely worrisome, but it feels like, uh, it feels like a moment where it kind of needs to be all burnt down to, to, to, to
[00:24:41] Troy: I mean, publishers needed a break. I mean, they just need to be able to have long lunches and martinis. It's like, it's, it's, it comes at them constantly.
[00:24:51] Brian: I know that was so,
[00:24:52] Troy: the good old days? The good old days.
[00:24:54] Brian: That was my big takeaway from CES because like I was on the other side, so I didn't see any robots. I saw no refrigerators. I didn't see this 95 inch TV because I did not set foot in the, the technology part. It's on another side of the strip and like everyone in the median ad world is between the aria and the Cosmopolitan, and it's a very strange thing.
But like anyone I ran into, I think the word was grind. Like they all expected this year to be a total grind.
[00:25:26] Alex: And, And,
a
[00:25:26] Troy: it's, it's the word of the year. And, and I don't really wanna bring this up, but like, who the hell is this organization that I highlighted in our text chat that has, has suggested that the, the word usy is the word of the year or the suffix of the year, or the half word of the year. Did, did you guys see me
[00:25:48] Brian: Which year
[00:25:49] Troy: this
[00:25:49] Brian: are we already on to 2023. 2023. It's 10 days in
[00:25:54] Troy: No, I must be for 22, Brian, but it's,
[00:25:56] Alex: Uh, it's the 22 20 22.
[00:25:58] Brian: Okay.
[00:25:59] Troy: the name
[00:25:59] Alex: It's called the American Dialect. The American Dialect Society.
[00:26:03] Troy: I thought you
would've known about this? Brian?
Apparently it's big on
social
[00:26:08] Brian: this like the real organization or is this like.
[00:26:11] Troy: I don't know, you're the
[00:26:12] Alex: People are, people are,
[00:26:15] Brian: no, I'm not like, what is it they said? The word of the year was something annoying. It's always annoying. Well, because now it's always like it was before, like these things existed, like outside of the digital world. And now, like the digital culture has like eaten like the entire world
[00:26:34] Troy: I mean, I don't want to be
[00:26:34] Brian: a lot, a lot of digital culture to me is annoying as shit.
So like, you know,
[00:26:40] Troy: Okay. Well, I agree, but I, I don't
[00:26:42] Brian: like how many, how many things do you have to like mute? Like on like Twitter? It's like, you know, first it was like, uh, good morning to everyone except, okay. Okay, then we're gonna have to mute that. And
[00:26:55] Troy: do I? Does that mean I stop on Twitter saying GM everybody?
[00:27:00] Brian: Gm like, you know,
[00:27:02] Alex: Troy, you were trained not to be crass, which is always a bad sign,
[00:27:05] Troy: Well, I, you know, I, I just think that this is hilarious, that, as you know, there was a linguistic phenomenon that I didn't know about based on, you know, a part of the female anatomy and a slang word for it. And putting usy at the end of anything from pizza to wine to boy is apparently the word of the year according to this obscure
[00:27:27] Brian: kind of like trans, is this like a transgressive thing or is this like,
[00:27:33] Alex: I wonder.
[00:27:34] Troy: I don't
[00:27:34] Brian: seem like it fits in the, doesn't seem like it fits in the current
[00:27:37] Alex: We're definitely not equipped to use it, but I think the I wonder how much of these things are still relevant with culture being so like, distributed as it is today. Like, I'm pretty sure there's a bunch of people who never heard of this and, and, and are saying no. You know, the word of ears is, is toenails or whatever.
[00:27:55] Brian: that guy Andrew Tate, I'd never heard of him before in my life.
[00:27:58] Alex: I wish I didn't. But it's, it's, you know, there's, there's big enough pockets of things happening and then you know
[00:28:06] Troy: Well, you know who I, you know who I care not about. You know who I don't care about. Is that right?
Prince? Prince Harry. I couldn't
[00:28:13] Brian: not Prince. Take it. He's just a guy in La
[00:28:16] Troy: Harry. Harry and La
[00:28:19] Brian: I've muted Harry. I had to mute
Harry.
[00:28:22] Troy: stop it. I don't want to hear your, I don't want to hear about your problems. I don't care where you lost
[00:28:27] Alex: What, what do you, what what? Yeah, I have, I've been avoiding it. I'm not a big fan of royalty in general. I find, uh, uh,
[00:28:35] Troy: I hate him as much as the British do.
[00:28:37] Brian: What about the
[00:28:39] Alex: by Wait. How, how, how do you, like, are you like a pro royalty person,
[00:28:43] Brian: Yeah. Troy? Yeah.
[00:28:44] Troy: Well, I grew up with royalty. Yeah. I mean, I think there's a certain, you know, the way
[00:28:48] Brian: Oh yeah. You're a Commonwealth person, right?
[00:28:51] Troy: God saved the queen.
[00:28:52] Alex: I don't get it. I don't get it.
[00:28:55] Troy: All
[00:28:56] Alex: But you know, I'm French. I'm French. We got rid of that a while ago, so I
got,
[00:28:59] Brian: you were an
[00:29:00] Alex: to get used to it. Yeah. French Austrian wasn't
[00:29:03] Troy: Well while we're
[00:29:04] Brian: it was like salor.
[00:29:05] Troy: you know, I hate that when we veer off our topic cuz we were talking ai, now we veered into a, like a ditch. And we and now I wanna talk about all these movies that are about how much rich people suck.
[00:29:18] Brian: I watched the, the menu. I thought, I thought it was fun. I like Chef
[00:29:22] Troy: But like, do you have an, you know, rich people aren't that bad.
[00:29:25] Brian: Yeah. They're.
[00:29:26] Alex: Here's what happened, Troy, I was having this conversation just earlier.
[00:29:30] Troy: Okay.
[00:29:31] Alex: I get a sense that among a certain type of incredibly wealthy, people, sometimes new money. There is a sense that there is a culture war being fought, that nobody else is fighting. And therefore there are people like Elon who start talking about the woke mind virus.
And they have create an environment where they all talk to each other, but have no real sense of what's going on. And the rest of the populace is looking at them and going, you're out of your fucking minds. You're not delivering enough value. Turns out you're not as smart as you are, and we, you won't.
You're tired of hearing about Harry. Everybody's tired about hearing about all these, like, billionaires that have created media empires, including us about like how hard their life is. I think it's, it's, it's turned, I think it's turned because they're just annoying, man. Fucking, I cannot listen to the all-in part and have like the, you know, them talking about. With glee, how all these people got fired and how they were like surplus elites, like they're the surplus elites. Like these
[00:30:32] Brian: Surplus elites,
[00:30:34] Alex: them surplus elites. Those capital allocators are calling product managers and localizers and people who work in customer support. And in, in the kitchens of tech companies, they're calling them surplus elites.
Meanwhile, you know, they luckily were at Facebook when it hit big and made more money and put another bet in. Like, I think people are just tired of that. So, so the ether rich thing is coming out of that. I think people are just tired. People
[00:30:58] Troy: thought that was good, Alex. That made me feel something.
[00:31:02] Alex: I mean, Elon was men of the year 20 in 2021. People loved Elon. Most people loved Elon.
[00:31:09] Brian: Yeah, that's true.
[00:31:11] Alex: And, and why do people not love Elon? Because of Elon.
[00:31:14] Brian: But isn't it also, I mean, there's just like, it's just part of the inequality thing, you know? I mean, there's a lot of inequality and people take it out like we've never lived in, in, you know, you could read Pickety or just say you've read 'em cuz it's like a 900 page book, like
[00:31:31] Troy: well, let's just tell people the, the, the thread that we pulled through, the people suck, or I hate rich people, movies. The menu, which had a, you know, a wonderful climax. But I think we'd all agree. We saw the movie, uh, triangle of Sadness that had my favorite barf scene of the year.
[00:31:47] Alex: Oh, I haven't seen that yet.
[00:31:48] Troy: uh, that doesn't ruin it.
So there's some barfing glass onion, which was also about a asshole rich guy who got his dew and I would argue White lotus. It was about clueless rich people being fleeced by, you know, a common prostitute.
[00:32:04] Alex: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, both, both seasons have been about wealth in class and, you know, I, I think, I think there's a, there's a little bit of chat Freud of, of seeing folks like that suffer when so many people are, are having a hard time. Right. Like the way what Brian said, like the, the divide is big and and there's a lot of flaunting,
you know.
[00:32:22] Troy: I feel like we just pivoted the podcast to the Shown Freud podcast.
[00:32:26] Alex: No, I think we should have, we should have a woke leftist podcast,
[00:32:30] Troy: Alex, would you do me a favor and just pronounce that word properly for me?
Like with Shho Roy?
[00:32:36] Alex: Sha
[00:32:38] Troy: Thank you.
[00:32:40] Alex: you know, there's a lot of words that I hear people say that are at, of French or German that I've actually learned how to pronounce, like, like Americans do so don't, so, because I, it's, it sounds like, yeah, yeah. Well, like, you know, uh, I dunno, like, like kuda.
[00:33:01] Brian: You don't go down to the low. You're like, could I have aqua?
[00:33:04] Troy: No, I hate, I hate the way Americans pronounce, uh, Crescent. It's so crude. It's a
[00:33:10] Brian: Oh, please,
[00:33:12] Troy: It's a crok.
Alex, what is the proper pronunciation of crok?
[00:33:20] Alex: I sound like I, I, you know what? I,
[00:33:22] Troy: What do you say when you go to the store and ask for a.
[00:33:25] Alex: I don't wanna sound like a douchebag. That's, uh, good. You have cross on, even though it's cross.
[00:33:30] Troy: Thank
[00:33:30] Alex: you do, you know, it's, it's, it's, you know, you start sounding like the guy who, who, who say, oh, let's go to karaoke. And he goes, it's pronounced . You know, like, you don't want to be that guy.
You don't want to be that guy. Or do you, I don't know. You know? Anyway, this has gone, uh, places I didn't expect it to.
[00:33:47] Troy: Oh, I loved it. I thought that was a great little detour. Thank you for that.
[00:33:49] Brian: good. Let's wrap it up there.
[00:33:51] Troy: Well, no, I can't, we can't wrap it up because you asked me to bring a good product to the table,
[00:33:56] Brian: oh shit. Let's, let's do Bri Uh,
we, you the good product is old school photos.
[00:34:02] Troy: Well, no, no, no. What are you doing? Uh, stop. Don't ruin it. There's a buildup. Brian. You know what? Sometimes you're so like unromantic. Okay.
so I just want to, let me just preface this a little bit because this is an emotional story for me and a real story, if you don't mind, Brian. So we're surrounded by digital noise, okay?
And. Last night I finished my cleanse. Thanks for asking me about how that went. And I, I finished a seven day cleanse and I tried to convince two of my children to come out and have like a hamburger with me, but they had other plans. So I went out on my own to get some food and I was gonna sit at a bar somewhere and eat a hamburger.
Andm have a m. . Just a simple dinner. So I, anyway, I ended up going to a Mexican spot, but I was sitting there and my wife is outta town and she texts me and I'm sitting at the bar getting dinner. I had been on a seven day cleanse. I'm hungry and I'm emotional and she sends me this photo of my father. My, my wife is traveling, but she took a.
Detour and went to hang out with my mother in British Columbia for a few days. She finds this photo of my father in this sway jacket with sunglasses on, I think probably age. I would put him at about 43, 44. He died when he was 48, when I was 19 years old. And there's so much I wanted to share with him that I never got to share, unfortunately.
And I looked at the photo and there was something about, there was something in his. that just killed me about how when I was young like that, he had a lot on his mind and he was carrying a lot both. both as a, a father and a breadwinner and a sick person. And I looked at this, so he looked at this photo in a completely different way, and I broke into tears.
And it wasn't a video, it was just a snap of a photo that my wife texted to me, and it absolutely killed me. And it reminded me that photographs, single photographs can, can really make you feel. and how, how it's that just kind of single instantaneous abstraction of reality that is so powerful. And I love photographs.
So
[00:36:27] Brian: do you think it's also because I think that's a great story, but like, do you also think that that's because like there's a finite number of photographs of your father?
[00:36:37] Troy: Oh yeah, it definitely has to do with the time. Between, I mean, I haven't looked at a photograph of him in a long time. We don't have a lot of him in our home. And obviously what he meant to me and what I didn't get to share with him. So it's all of that. But yeah, and it's scarcity for sure. Yeah.
[00:36:53] Alex: beautiful story, Troy. I think it's also a photograph. It's something you can look at and your mind isn't being distracted by anything else. So you really focus in on the memory and what it means to you. Like a photograph is unique to that, you know, where video or audio kind of brings you back maybe into a moment that you kind of live through.
While a photograph, I think allows you to have a.
That's some old school. That's some old school. Cool there.
[00:37:20] Brian: Did
you
[00:37:20] Troy: can you see that photo?
[00:37:21] Brian: I can see the photo. Did you see that there was, there's actually a trend. It's not totally in taking analog photographs, but for young people to be going back to digital cameras.
[00:37:33] Troy: Yes, I did see that it was a New York Times story
[00:37:35] Brian: Yeah,
[00:37:36] Troy: and they want the look of of like, you know, first and second generation digital cameras. My daughter has one of those. She, I wondered why she wanted it. I guess she found it. It was cool.
[00:37:47] Brian: there you go. Photographs,
[00:37:50] Alex: Well, it was beautiful, a beautiful way to end it. I don't know what the, what the theme of this episode was.
[00:37:56] Brian: I don't know either.
[00:37:57] Alex: But I think it ended well.
[00:38:00] Troy: Well, if we can't, if we can't thread something through this, let's go with the most appealing part of the, the episode and promote that.
[00:38:08] Alex: Everything sucks. And so can you
[00:38:10] Troy:


PVA S1E19
PVA S1E19
[00:00:00] Brian:
[00:00:02] Alex: we're having technical issues because one of Troy's staff took away his cable.
Anyway, the zins brought me down a little bit last night. I had a bad sleep as a result, and, um, a little bit testy, but I'm really looking forward to this episode. To be honest, I was very, very negative on it at the beginning when we were gonna do yet another winners and losers.
[00:00:21] Troy: I like to bring you guys up. I like to be the yes and person, um, but I didn't like the idea. But in the end, I loved.
[00:00:29] Brian: Can't wait.
Should be
[00:00:31] Alex: a good one.
We're gonna try something new this week. it is the last legally permissible day to do one of these year ahead winners and losers kinds of podcasts. It's, Troy hates the idea, but he's, he's begrudgingly gone along with it, so, um, we'll see how it goes. Troy, I actually wanna start with you because you don't like the idea. Gimme a winner for this year and be conceptual.
[00:01:17] Troy: You know, I got, I got a little bit of a thing here, so I, I wrote, I just got home. I was on the subway and I wrote it out. So I, I have some thoughts on this and, and, and I would say that, The big qualifier here is it is conceptual. Alex wanted a single company. I refused to do that and or an individual. And it really is obviously the thesis of rebooting, the things I'm gonna talk about and a lot of things that we've talked about in the past.
uh, I was at a board meeting yesterday and I, and I thought maybe I'd cheat on this exercise. So I asked someone who's pretty smart, I said, well, you know, what are the winners at loses at 23? And he didn't give me an answer.
And he made a point, which was kind of where I was going, is like, the big question is what models work now? And that's the real challenge across media. It's like, we don't, we don't have the new model. We're between and betwixt to models. And so, you know, the other thing is obviously you wanna look at macro trends and.
You know, what, what kind of vectors in the economy, society, culture are affecting the things that are around us, maybe in particular. So I started thinking about it, you know, obviously AI is a big thing. You or Alex, I'll probably talk about that. I'll give you that one. I don't want it. Um, efficiency in all things, you know, driven by AI and others.
Interesting. The waning power of horizontal platforms is probably a theme. Consumer data rights is an ongoing theme. You know, everything. Performance media. Uh, and data sets. And then there's a bunch of soft stuff like I think travel and food and, you know, niche everything and local local's important and themes and dogs.
What do you do with all the dogs from Covid? There's so many dogs in my neighborhood. Oh my God, we have a dog problem. Anyway, that's not, that's,
[00:02:53] Brian: that's, a Brooklyn. That's a Brooklyn problem.
[00:02:56] Troy: Yeah. So let's detour and, and where, where I would, I was thinking about this, I was like, I have this thing I would call the racket. and it's all businesses are rackets. All good businesses are great rackets, right? So what does that mean? You look to get scale and scale gives you market power so that you can find non-linear margins. Those non-linear margins are things that I would call rackets, and they are things like a $30 adapter for an iPhone, um, car repair at the BMW dealer, uh, popcorn at a movie.
Credit card fees, you get it right. Stuff that people rip you off on because you're in a system or cuz they have distribution dominance or because you own part of their ecosystem and those are racks, right? And so for a long time and, and racks are fine, they just disappear and they get replaced by other racks.
And media has been a racket for a long. And, and so what I mean by that is that, let's go through just a couple magazines had inflated rate bases driven by subsidized subscribers and subscriptions and bullshit. They had dollar subs with Autorenew cable. You know, that was literally the best, business model in media of all times.
just kind of poured profits few people watched a lot of the channels, but they made huge amounts of money anyway. newspapers were local monopolies. Really a wonderful racket. more recently we had growth hacking, fake, unique, even eos kind of a racket, slideshows that produced tons of ad impressions.
ad refresh, racket, racket, racket, racket. Okay. And so new rackets will be found, but this is a day of reckoning. And so then I thought, let me put this into perspective. You're gonna love this. Okay? good media is worth a lot. And I thought about how I explained it to my kids okay, we have trained the world to think about $2 CPMs.
That's what social media did. That's what digital media did, and. and let's say I write a little missive on the future of media. It's a thousand words, and you pay me a thousand bucks. Me pay me a thousand bucks for a little document I gave you and you alone. And that's a million dollar cpm, right? Because it's a thousand times a. Million dollars. And it's a good way to think of it. Cause if I gave it to a thousand people, it's still a thousand dollars ccpm. if they read it and paid for it or somebody paid for it, right?
So good media is worth a lot, most is noise. And U G U G C largely made it soap. There's noise and there's really valuable media and we've educated the market on false metrics, media metrics. So too many people think it's $2 CPMs. And now what's happening is on the consumer side, we've shifted a model that you can pay for what you wanna watch and it destroyed the most valuable media bundle of all time.
The cable. And so it washes out all the profits and streaming wars. Absolutely. A scale business and a war of attrition. And it's, there's, you know, there's way fewer profits or smaller profits, so the whole thing pushes. , obviously it pushes the economics of advertising to performance cuz there's so much media, it's the only way to sort through it.
And then on the other end, you have wildly valuable media, the million dollar CPM media on the high end that really, really touches and engages and influences people. So you've got performance, high-end media and cheap chatter. Cheap chatter's, like the worst impression in the world is a Twitter. It's like almost worth nothing as you discovered last week.
so the winner in 2023 is getting real. Right. And in the old battle it was platforms versus people and the platforms won. You might even say it was platform versus media brands and the platform won. And this time, you know, I think it flips. So real media supported by real media economics, the people behind it win.
in order to do it, you have to get the cost structure right. You have to be leni as shit as we've said many times. you have to make great products as Alex always reminds. And then the streamers that went are just scaled. So I'm gonna list the companies and I'm gonna give you the mic.
I'm gonna actually promote my book here, as they say, on all the, all in podcasts. So some are my books, some are not. But like services, like the information they win. Because they're good and you know, the l t V of the audience is very high and, I'm an investor in a company called Drug Hunter that sells $1,200 subscriptions to scientists and chemists.
And it's working extremely well. services, I think like strategic, that have done a really good job of like notifications, you know, high value content, et cetera, Punchbowl even.
[00:07:27] Brian: that ery? I gotta,
I gotta come
in. S is what George W. Bush said and people made fun of him for it.
I just wanna, I wanna protect you.
[00:07:35] Alex: Ery.
[00:07:36] Troy: Okay. The ft. Maybe even SE four qualifies maybe. Cuz I actually think their email product is really good even though, you
[00:07:44] Brian: Their video product. You were on the, their video product is good.
[00:07:48] Troy: I of mixed feelings, but I, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's, no, no, no. I think it's a hard fight for semi four, but I think their email products really terrific. Um, so high value customer, real brands, real engagement tends to be small, largely c, community driven, new model. People as the platform, right? The people in the platform.
So there's some platforms that win inside of this. Okay. And what it is, is like platforms like CK, I think are really on a growth trajectory. And they're the antithesis of the old platforms. They build communities around voices and around very narrow subject matter interests. And then even another one that's also, that I'm involved in called Medallion, which isck for artists and fan communities.
And so it's the same thing. I, Brian, you're laughing. Don't laugh.
[00:08:32] Brian: Well, no, I am glad. I'm glad you put the disclaimer
[00:08:35] Troy: well, yeah. and and so that's, that's, those are some of the ones, I think. So everything from like quality products, like the FT that serves a narrow audience at a high price to the information, to drug hunter, to Milk Street is a great example cuz it serves the community in a very specific way.
And, uh, that kind of media's got along, along, uh, a promising road ahead. And, you know, the, the qualifiers are all the ones that we've talked about, that they're raised on real humans, real engagement, low costs, and, and, and very, very serviceable niches. And, um, I, weird loser. The loser is
[00:09:12] Brian: Wait. No, no, no, no, no, no. We're go, we're, we're g We're not going, we're we're going in a different direction.
We're gonna each do winners and we'll go into losers. Losers are the second
[00:09:22] Troy: okay. All right. So that's, that's my submission for this week. Brian. Thank you for giving me the.
[00:09:27] Brian: Jesus Christ. That was like a little Fidel Castro. There. We're up to like 10 minutes. Alex. Now it's time for us to jump in. Um. , but some really great points. And I think like, let me go from the racket point because like this actually came up in a meeting I had. I, I went to Brooklyn. It was the first time I'd been to Brooklyn in a few months and, and met up with, uh, an executive there.
Um, and we talk,
[00:09:53] Troy: What executives live in Brooklyn?
[00:09:55] Brian: we were talking about rackets and we were talking about, and actually this is one of my biggest losers, whatever. We'll go into my loser then maybe.
[00:10:02] Troy: No.
[00:10:03] Brian: Okay. Well one of the, the racket that was brought up was Google. It's just the ultimate racket. Right. And like it's a mafia racket and nobody says it because everyone's scared of Google.
And like, I'll never get an advertising deal, apparently now out of Google, but that's fine. Um, and because they set up and they control the highway and they just, the only. Business model that seems to have been durable in digital media has been basically having a parking lot. A friend of mine in college, he used to work at parking lots during the summer, and when you own a parking lot, it's just awesome.
It's all cash. You can like cheat on your taxes and all you have to do is make sure that the kids like taking the money. Don't steal too much money from you and. It's great business and Google basically is doing the same thing. And what I find interesting with Google, and I think this is gonna end, uh, this year, is just like conceptually, the fact that they control every single side.
They control the buy side, the sell side, they control the marketplace, and they're one of the biggest participants in the marketplace. In what market would this. Ever makes sense. Like it does not make sense in any other market, and I think that'll have to come to a close this year. Um, I do think new rackets are going to appear.
I'm just, I'm interested in what the new rackets are gonna be.
[00:11:25] Alex: Yeah. I wonder, do you think there's, it's funny, I feel that there's like a, a sentiment on the internet that everything sucks, interfaces are getting worse, even, you know, apple. TV's interface now feels like a racket because they're mostly advertising stuff their shows to you. Right where it started, like this is the best TV interface because it's, it's easy to use and it's beautiful, but now it just feels like a giant ad for everything.
I wonder if uh, tolerance Is waning for that type of stuff. and a lot of the stuff that you've mentioned, Troy, just stuff that are good, they're good, they're individual, they're rare, there's not a 15 versions of them. and maybe people are just willing to create really good things that aren't at a huge scale.
Right? Maybe scale is also a problem because the second you start scaling something, it kind of becomes shit, doesn't it? can something like the information or drug hunter be amazing at scale, whatever that means.
[00:12:17] Troy: No, I think those are by definition niche. I think where scale does matter is when. You're fighting to get a consumer against a bundle of entertainment, then to me scale, the consumer's gonna buy scale every time. So that, that's the Netflix thing. And I think Netflix is gonna do just fine as a result. But one, one thing I am delighted about is that you guys, uh, seem to respond favorably to my, my submission this week,
which
[00:12:41] Brian: submission is, is completely complimentary to yours, in fact.
[00:12:45] Troy: no. That's terrific.
[00:12:47] Brian: Yeah, and we
[00:12:48] Alex: got nothing to do with it.
[00:12:51] Troy: Okay. Can we, should we do your, should we build on mine then with
[00:12:54] Brian: Yeah, well let's, let's let's build in, cuz I think like the mine is actually the ingredient function of what you're saying. I think, and that's like, and this might be a little bit obvious, but it's aal, right? And I think when we go into this period of hyper efficiency, we see the cuts going on at a lot of companies and that those cuts are coming to publishing companies probably by the time this podcast comes out.
That's inevit. You know, everything is downstream of something else, but I think what you're seeing and what you're talking about is. When you shift from, uh, rackets to the quote unquote real is you have to have like incredibly talented people who, you know, in their, in their particular areas that have outsized influence and can cover a ton of ground because that covers off on a lot of the efficiency problems.
Like a lot of media is stuffed with mediocrity in a lot of different ways because. The MA machine needs to get fed, like SEO content needs to be fed into these machines. These machines need constant feeding, and when that becomes devalued, then those people become like a real. Like cost center, don't they?
And you know, ultimately I think what in my thesis of like a future for sustainable media is it's gonna be a lot smaller and it's gonna have to be very lean and very efficient. But then if you have really talented people, they can be the, the proverbial 20 x engineer and cover a lot of grounds and you don't need as many people as the previous models needed.
[00:14:32] Troy: Now I would only add the caveat is, and this always kind of was a, in the back of my mind when I thought about your business, Brian, is we just need to get more realistic about the million dollar CPM thing. It's like, I know that there's a constant push for leads in your world and,
[00:14:51] Brian: that's what we call them,
[00:14:52] Alex: What does that stand for?
[00:14:54] Brian: marketing qualified leads.
[00:14:57] Troy: Yeah.
and I think that. Getting inside of someone's brain, particularly a decision maker, someone's senior, or actually in your case where you have, you know, thousands of subscribers in your newsletter. To really start to change sentiment in a vertical business category is worth a lot of money.
and I just think that, that to some extent that media needs to be revalued because we're so, you listen, you know what, we've been messing around, I've been buying media on Twitter just to really understand it better, and it's just, it's farting in the wind. it's, it's like, you know, in and out of, out of your view with very little impact.
So I, I think that this kind of re reevaluation of what media value is, is an, a very important compliment to what you're talking about.
[00:15:44] Brian: Yeah, for sure.
[00:15:45] Alex: And, I mean, uh, complimenting both your points. My question remains, can you build something around. Both of those winners that you've picked that is at the scale that the tech and media industry seems to want to, kind of base their success metrics on? Or are all these like, is it a million small things or is it a thousand big things, or is it a mix? Does that make sense? Like maybe scale is like overrated.
[00:16:15] Brian: no, I think scale is the problem because it's generally un, unless, like I, I take your point in streaming and entertainment and stuff, but usually scale is in opposition to, to quality. It's like quantity or quality. Like choose one. I know like they've got those like Amazon trucks I used to see in Miami that was like, you can have it fast or cheaper.
You can have Amazon, you can have it both. Um,
[00:16:40] Alex: But maybe it works for, maybe scale works. I mean, scale obviously works for logistics and commerce. The question is, will it, does it work for, for media? Because I also, you know, we are saying Netflix will be fine, but I think Netflix also suffers a scale problem where their stuff is becoming less and less interesting and more data
[00:16:57] Brian: Wait, isn't Netflix like poised for a comeback here?
[00:17:00] Alex: Look, I'm always kind of framing myself around the quality of the product. And I think Netflix product and, and the way people talk about Netflix has really deteriorated. Netflix is caught in the loop now where nobody trusts. A show to stick around more than a season.
And they keep seeing First Seasons that have low audience because No. Keeps trusting that they're gonna have a second season and they, they've canceled like 90 shows, you know? So, but we're not talking about Netflix. I think, yeah. Media at scale. So is it going to just be small, medium companies and big platforms?
Is that, is that the future you see? Because that's what it sounds like to me, listening to
both of you.
[00:17:38] Brian: I think it's gonna be small, like super focused. And then there's gonna be a lot, there's gonna be like tons of people who are like shoveling things into the algorithms. some professional, some not professional, some somewhere in between.
[00:17:51] Alex: Troy, what do you think? Our cpm, what do you think this podcast as CPM should be? What do you think we deserve?
[00:17:59] Troy: A thousand dollars.
[00:18:01] Alex: Great. Yeah. Yeah. That will pay for these microphones,
[00:18:05] Brian: Thousand dollars cpm.
I think we might even need higher than that.
[00:18:10] Troy: Yeah.
[00:18:11] Brian: Well,
the problem is, well, well no, this is a problem. So like, uh, let, let's actually talk about that because like, I'd like to sell some ads, but like the, um, the problem with podcasting and a lot of these. These areas that you have a depth of connection is that the CPM itself is the problem in that it incentivizes everything is incentives and it's incentivize, incentivizes, fleeting impressions.
It's literally an impression. It doesn't matter. the idea that like you can like do arbitrage through content rec networks and get that impression very easily. And, and why would you want to earn it like you. You, you can actually buy it and it's more regular you like it makes more sense to actually take, you're incentivizing the rackets at the end of the day.
I think the CPM incentivizes a ton of rackets. Performance incentivizes a ton of rackets. Like we talk about MQ ls, like am my. Business. I've got like 13,200 people on my, uh, list and like, they're CEOs and they have like 84% open rates. Not all 13,000, but you know, they're, they're top executives at media companies that actually read, they write me back and stuff like this, but I'm going out there and competing with people who have, you know, 200,000 people on an email.
Oh by the way, it's like an 11% open rate. And by the way, like most of their like traffic comes from seo, from articles that were written years previously or like how to change your TikTok profile. That has nothing to do with what they're selling, and that's just because like the incentives are such and they're lined up, whether it's CPM or some of the performance metrics to basically reward rackets in my.
[00:19:58] Alex: I mean, I
[00:19:58] Troy: Yeah, and it, but it does suggest to me that underneath of it all, you know, the cost to manufac. A deep connection to a important constituent is really high. It's just, it just is
[00:20:11] Brian: Yeah.
[00:20:11] Troy: like it.
[00:20:12] Brian: But that's why, that's why I go back to like events. Like I did a ton of events and I have like a, a sort of love-hate relationship with them because I have hosted many programmatic marketing, uh, events. You would have a, a very tortured view of events if you had done that yourself. Um, and. People pay insane CPMs.
Like at Dig A, like people would pay us $30,000 to get on stage and talk to like 150 hungover, agency executives. And I always think to myself, why is that? What is the CPM on that? That's insane. Right? And I think that there's an opportunity in media or in publishing at least, that's where I go, is like to take that model right? The World Economic Forums going on right now. You know, they charged, they were charging Bill Brower $250,000 for a ticket. That is a great media business. I want that business
[00:21:06] Alex: I think the problem is like when, when you have a media business, now you've put into a pool with, uh, with a bunch of different media properties of different sizes, and so the data becomes really noisy and messy. And then you try to create a system like CPM to give people incentives, but then those incentives are distorted.
You can't attribute anything to anything. Um, so everything at scale just becomes kind of, It loses value and, and what you're seeing with events is that they feel, you know, unique and they feel hard to cheat on. And you're there with people and you can, you know, they're probably overvalued though, right?
[00:21:42] Brian: Events. Yeah, sure. But the, the reason that they're overvalued is because, like take b2b, the reason that they're overvalued is because in b2b, every single marketing person basically wor works for the sales team and the marketing people are just supposed to serve up leads. In market leads to the, uh, sales team and the, with, let's say they do something with me, I'm telling 'em like, I can't guarantee you that like someone is gonna call you up or email you and say, oh yeah, I wanna demo your product.
I'm like, how would I, I, I can make an introduction and like, but how would I know that? Like, I mean, it might not be right for them at the right time, but I'm gonna give you a shot. But if you don't like value that, that's really difficult. Whereas like an event. You offer like a free trip to all these executives, put 'em up at a, at the Ritz Carlton in Half Moon Bay, and you guarantee that you're gonna be delivering your advertiser.
That lead. I mean, that's a racket. That's a
[00:22:39] Alex: It's, you know,
[00:22:40] Troy: I find it, it's always windy at that hotel.
[00:22:44] Brian: The s'mores are like, what are the s'mores going on? Like five years ago, the s'mores experience was like 45 bucks. It must be like four.
[00:22:53] Alex: But it sounds like it just, the racket then is like incentives built on incentives, built on incentives, and everybody's like trying to cheat on them. So it kind of basically distorts everything.
[00:23:02] Brian: The Ritz Ritz Carlton Halfman Bay S'mores experience is a total racket.
[00:23:08] Troy: Should we.
[00:23:09] Alex: there was a red Carlton.
[00:23:10] Troy: You know, I, I love that A, this is gonna be good, Brian, because
Alex has become the no, no, but Alex has become a, kind of, his brand is purity on this podcast, right? Like, he's the product purity and he, he, he, last week he memorialized a little bit and, and so I'm really looking forward to hearing his, uh, winner of, uh, of 23.
[00:23:32] Alex: you know, both of you were very thematic and both of you, uh, were in media, so I'm thinking I could, I could have one that's more. You know, on the media path, but mine is very different to this and will take us down a path that is very different. So what do you wanna Do
[00:23:50] Troy: Is it about Scient
[00:23:52] Alex: No, I mean, I, I, I
[00:23:54] Brian: too personal. It's fine.
[00:23:57] Alex: It's my mental health. No, um, it's, I went down the purity route, uh, Troy and I picked a company, um, as, as, uh, being a winner in 2023. Um, and I kind of took what was going on in the world, I think, of technology and, and product and media, and looked at which company was, in, in the best position to win.
And of course, like, you know, TikTok
[00:24:21] Troy: it. Hold it. Pause, pause, pause. Should we guess,
[00:24:25] Alex: guess
Yes.
[00:24:26] Troy: do you have a guess of what it's gonna be? Because I told him not to do Apple, so it's not
[00:24:30] Brian: No, I'm hoping it's Apple.
[00:24:31] Alex: Guess
[00:24:32] Brian: Because then you could storm off.
[00:24:34] Alex: So you, you're looking at,
[00:24:35] Brian: a moment.
[00:24:36] Alex: you look at this big rebooting, you're looking at the big changes in the world. Which company, which company is best positioned you think?
[00:24:43] Brian: Microsoft.
[00:24:44] Troy: Hmm. Maybe it's,
uh, he
[00:24:46] Brian: They're gonna get, they're gonna get Activision. They're gonna, they've got, they've got chat. G P T, they're gonna put it into like clip. He's gonna come back. It's gonna be amazing.
[00:24:54] Alex: what's your guest? Troy
[00:24:55] Troy: Hmm, well, you wouldn't be as shameless to promote Airbnb, um, if you did. Uh, and it wouldn't, and it wouldn't be something s super niche like, uh, you know, like a microphone company or some keyboard or some esoteric electronic item. Um, and it's probably gotta be software and hardware together. It may be, it may be sort of like, Health ring or some shit like that,
[00:25:24] Alex: No, that would
be, no, no. Troy, uh, Brian got it. Correctly. It is Microsoft. Microsoft, okay. Let me give you my thesis around Microsoft. Um,
[00:25:35] Troy: You p pick Microsoft.
[00:25:37] Alex: yes, yes. Here, here's why.
[00:25:39] Brian: Very
strong in mi. Very strong in
[00:25:41] Alex: listen listen to me. Listen to me people. So, here's the thing. People, we, we have the emergence of ai, uh, on top of that, an immense amount of funding going to whatever the metaverse is, which to me is video games in your glasses.
But, um, and a major media shakeup, um, happening and, and a. You know, regulation and everything getting mixed in. Here's where Microsoft is. Microsoft is a very large tech company that people don't have a strong opinion about, which is great because they've kind of stayed in the background. They've built an incredible set of services that are all number two or number three in the world.
The a search service, a cloud service, a gaming service. But it all adds up to something that they have all the pieces ready to go. AI might shake the board enough to give them a way to get ahead on some of these things. So they just invested 10 billion into open ai, which is weird. That means they get 75% of the profits, but only 49% of the company.
Um, but di I bet might bolster a business like Bing, which is already a 10 billion business. And unlike Google, they can fuck with Bing and nobody will care. If Google changes anything about Google search, you know, the stock might plummet, but Microsoft has enough room to, to mess with Bing. Um, and they just added the open and eyes service.
Azure, their cloud system. So now people can plug in straight into to to GPT three and um, and they will be able to, uh, start building tools with chat GPD soon. So they're set up their. Incredibly well positioned to make progress in the Metaverse, I think the best company in the world for that. They own a bunch of ips, including Minecraft, including Halo, and they're trying to acquire, um, Activision Blizzard.
They've got Azure, the cloud system. They've got uh, the Xbox, they've got Windows gaming, which is huge. Um, and also they're great at making partnerships. We saw it with Netflix. You know, Microsoft is serving ads on Netflix, right? They don't need to worry about. You know, building the media business. They can, they can be both the plumbing and, uh, the, you know, the, the landlords.
Um, and so, and so
[00:27:51] Troy: Maybe
they'll make a, maybe they'll make a phone this year.
[00:27:54] Alex: I don't think they're gonna make a phone. I don't th I think they've learned their lessons. They're not
even, the Zoom was great, by the way, as a, by the way, Microsoft has built many great products that didn't succeed, but,
[00:28:04] Brian: Wait, was that one of them?
[00:28:06] Alex: I think the Zoom was a great product.
[00:28:08] Brian: Whoa.
[00:28:09] Alex: Yeah. Yeah.
For its time. Absolutely.
[00:28:12] Brian: I remember like B Bill Gates was like mocked when like, they asked him what he thought about the iPod and he was like, A phone works fine. And everyone's like, ha ha ha. And he is like, well, he was kind of right.
[00:28:21] Alex: yeah, he was kind of right. But the, the problem with Microsoft is Microsoft doesn't like, have a lens to focus all its thing down one direction, and so the Zoom kind of stood on its own while Apple could connect it to the Mac and all that stuff. Okay.
Here's some I have for each of my winners and losers. I have also have caveats, right? Caveats and runners up.
[00:28:40] Troy: Brian, Alex really did some work on this,
[00:28:42] Brian: Uh, I know. I didn't expect him to
[00:28:44] Alex: I will, I will read through my
[00:28:46] Troy: He's never come prepared.
[00:28:48] Alex: well
you
made while you,
[00:28:50] Brian: because people wrote it and praised Alex's portion of the
[00:28:53] Alex: I basically, what happened is it, it, I asked Troy if he liked the new music that I updated for 2023. Says, who gives a shit just come prepared? I said, okay, I'll also come prepare. So here's, here's, here's my caveats.
Right? No, no, I didn't.
You kind of did. Sometimes you're mean and you don't realize it. Um,
so
[00:29:19] Troy: I, no, no. You know, you know what? I just think we, that you need that. You maybe misframed it a little bit. I think I said I, I think I said the music's great. Please come prepared.
[00:29:29] Alex: that's true. You did. Okay. So caveat regulation, right? The Activision deal, it's on, like, it's on shaky ground. The FTC is tr is is against the deal. You know what? I don't understand. The FTCs focused on that because the number one and number two players in that space are both are Chinese and Japanese.
So they're going after the only American, uh, player. Um, I don't, I'm not taking the
FTCs one.
[00:29:52] Brian: let's say that, that's not the FTCs job though, right? To like block out like foreign companies.
[00:29:59] Alex: It's not that it's not, it's, but it is
about
[00:30:01] Troy: is the mo. This is the most right wing Alex ever has ever been.
[00:30:04] Alex: But here's the thing. It's about competition, but, uh, Microsoft isn't dominant in, in, in that space. And the two dominant players are actually not American, which makes, I think the, the regulation feel a little, uh, Europe has
[00:30:19] Brian: a stretch. It was a kind of a weird thing for them to go after of all the
[00:30:22] Alex: I just, I also have to say like I've, you know, I've worked for Activision.
I worked on the Call of Duty stuff, so I should probably.
[00:30:29] Brian: Oh,
[00:30:29] Alex: Mention that, uh, uh, doesn't taint my, my view of this though, um, I think I, I think it, the Activision deal would give them like things, like everybody talks about Call of Duty, but the big one is also all the kink stuff like the mobile, right? They become a huge player in mobile and then they have something in every bucket, right?
Um, and that's the first caveat. The second caveat. Apple, or maybe even meta or, although I don't think meta's any more close to doing it, like drop some sort of headset and platforms that's like sparks the imagination of the world and all of a sudden the metaverse like, you know, leapfrogs into something else.
Now Apple's going to release a $3,000 headset. That is more, you know, Probably a more of a business tool. So I don't think that's gonna happen, but, um, I think Microsoft's strategy to, to build the platforms, build the piping own d i p for the metaverse and gaming and, and all that comes with that is way more like a way better strategy than burning a bunch of money trying to make a headset because all that technology is going to become, pretty commonplace in the next 10 years.
Okay, so this is it. This is mine. I told you we'd take a turn.
[00:31:35] Brian: I
[00:31:35] Troy: Yeah, I think you did a great job. I still don't like their Zoom product though. I hate that thing. What
[00:31:42] Alex: You mean where? Ah, shit, what is the Microsoft? It's the one that
[00:31:47] Brian: Nobody likes teams.
The only people who use teams are incredibly bureaucratic, are European.
[00:31:52] Alex: is teams is the worst of Microsoft because it's also, they spent the entire pandemic completely. Completely ignoring Skype, which, which was like the dominant player for the longest time.
Right. Um, and, and instead they built teams and as many things at Microsoft.
Uh, it's shit. I mean, let's
[00:32:11] Troy: No, but Alex, the thing you're forgetting about Teams is it's a classic example of a throw in product at Microsoft provides to destroy competition and leverage their dominant position in offices cuz they own the office.
[00:32:25] Alex: Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely.
[00:32:27] Troy: Anyway. Anyway. I'm really, Alex, I just want you to know I'm really, really impressed.
I think you showed great range on that and also were very open-minded about, a company that you used to hate.
[00:32:41] Alex: Quite true. And, and,
[00:32:42] Brian: Why did you hate Microsoft? Just general Microsoft.
[00:32:46] Alex: I mean, I think if you're an interface designer, you gotta hate Microsoft.
[00:32:50] Brian: Oh,
[00:32:51] Alex: you know, the, the, the, the crimes that Windows has been committing since, since the first version of Windows are many. It's, um, and the amount of wasted human potential comes from using a Windows computer, they should probably be shut down for it, but, you know, I think they work the, the, the,
[00:33:12] Brian: They
[00:33:12] Alex: the, the thing
[00:33:13] Brian: probably have a war crimes tribunal, but other than that, they're the
[00:33:16] Alex: Yeah, so the, the, the thing about Microsoft or is like when it's got something succeeding, they often screw it up, but when they're like fighting for something, they can build really interesting product. I think Xbox is an interesting product. Game Pass is an interesting product.
[00:33:29] Brian: I think it's really interesting just that Microsoft, I mean, for a massive, massive company has sort of been. out of the limelight. I guess a little bit like in, in the quote unquote discourse when it comes to like the Silicon Valley types, like, um, or
[00:33:43] Alex: It's a superpower. It's a superpower. Nobody has an
[00:33:46] Brian: because a lot of it is boring, right?
I mean, Microsoft is boring, and I think what's interesting to me is that it's a great winner for tech going into a boring phase. , like a lot of the advances in tech are gonna be baking AI into like existing products and stuff, and maybe it won't be, but, um, tech to me, like the whole industry is going into like a, a phase where they're dividend companies and they're boring.
They're gonna be
[00:34:15] Troy: You know what, what, what el what? What else will go down in the books is the ability of A C E O to activate business leaders and executives across that organization to liven up a company that was really mismanaged. And so he's gonna get sort of c e o of the decade award.
[00:34:34] Brian: And he's boring. See, there's a theme.
[00:34:37] Alex: See, Microsoft is a boring company that actually makes exciting things. Twitter's an exciting company that makes boring things.
That's the way I say it.
[00:34:45] Brian: We got a theme here already. Let's get into losers cuz they're the more fun. I, I mean, I love the do we can keep going on on Microsoft.
[00:34:51] Alex: do we? No, no. I was going to ask is, do we have time for, for losers? Um, or,
[00:34:57] Troy: Oh, we gotta, we gotta bang out the losers. Everybody wants the losers.
[00:35:00] Alex: All right. We could
keep it for
[00:35:01] Brian: let's do a lightning round of losers. Troy? No. Fidel Castro. Do the,
[00:35:06] Troy: I'm making up the loser. To me, losers are gotta be advertising. You know what I, I just think advertising is in such a story state right now. It really is. And I could start my tirade with floating video players or fake native advertising, or all the bullshit that's masquerading. It's something that's useful to you on the internet.
And then I would move more recently into what I would call. We could, it's not performance, just don't confuse this. It's performative advertising or checklist advertising where we are forced as an agency to include every kind of denomination, ethnicity, sexual orientation, and every single ad such that we'll forget that we're here to engage, enlighten, persuade, uh, and, and entertain the audience.
And advertising on television is brutal. It's terrible. Advertising on the internet only goes down. And my favorite thing about advertising, I can only say right now, is the fucking affiliate link.
[00:36:09] Brian: Wow. That was your like David Sacks moment,
[00:36:15] Alex: But in his case. He's correct. I like us. Take Troy. I think you and I started. Back in the day where we were trying to innovate on advertising. Sometimes I look at stuff and I say, yeah, this is kind of the, logical conclusion of where we started. and it feels, and today advertising feels like junk.
It feels like
[00:36:31] Troy: I just feel it's wasted youth. Alex, I'm sorry that I brought you into that.
[00:36:36] Alex: Yeah. I mean, sometimes I, you know, let, yesterday in my therapy session, I went to, I talked about resentment for a long time, and, and we learned of how to let go of that. So I see you in a different light today, Uh, but, but,
it could be,
[00:36:56] Brian: is advertising. Well, mine, mine is the same. Is Well, it's, it's sort of, I previewed it, it's Google, like, I think Google's in for a tough year. Like it's had like a great run and I think it's coasted a little bit. Um, and they had such a tremendous benefit of having, uh, Cash printing machine in the back.
That was unrivaled for so long and I don't think they really utilized that opportunity. And now with so many governments after Google that they're gonna be tied up in that for a long time. They're gonna get there. There's going to be attempts to like break up its stranglehold on whatever is left of digital advertising industry.
It's still a massive industry and now Microsoft could very well be like a real true rival. I mean, I think like search is actually an gonna become an interesting space. If you look at what Neva is doing, it's interesting. It's interesting and like brave and like they were both in, um, I, I watched a, a session, they were on it at, uh, when I was in Munich at D L d and they have a differentiated proposition.
you know, and they can, they can actually chip away. And then when you look at Microsoft, and Microsoft's been playing the long game with, with search, I had to give them credit. I, I remember going back to SN search and then live search, they couldn't under, they couldn't decide what to brand the thing. They changed the name like 50 times, then ended up on Bing and everyone made fun of Bing.
And meanwhile it's like 10 billion business. But now the,
[00:38:31] Troy: Well, it's only j just, uh, just to be clear, it's only a 10 billion business cuz it powers all the Microsoft front ends that touch consumers, including MSN and any other surface that they have.
[00:38:42] Brian: Yeah, but like at the same time, like that is a, a nice place to start from and they didn't give up on it, you
[00:38:49] Troy: All right. Can we stop, can we cool it with the Microsoft adoration? Is that the right word?
[00:38:55] Alex: Well.
[00:38:56] Brian: nobody, a nobody worships. You said that you would stop the podcast if it was Apple, so I love the that. Alex like went totally opposite direction. He's sort of, he's playing chess over there,
[00:39:08] Alex: I mean, I wasn't going to pick Apple anyway. Uh, you know, Brian, tag me in because my loser in 2023 is Google.
[00:39:16] Brian: He worked.
[00:39:17] Alex: Here we go. So, so
[00:39:19] Brian: This is a good dynamic where we team up against Troy
[00:39:23] Alex: yeah. and I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll,
I'll bring, I'll bring, this is not what's happening, Troy. So.
[00:39:29] Troy: It is absolutely what's happening.
[00:39:31] Brian: might be what's happening, Alex, don't tell him it's not happening. He's gotta think. It might
[00:39:34] Alex: right. Okay. Yeah, just, just live with the consequences.
Let me finish since, since I'm
[00:39:39] Troy: you guys have at, you guys have attempted to sort of push me into the right wing corner. You don't like it. you don't like it? when I talk, you know, when I talk straight talk truth. You think that I, I'm a power booster, as you said, Brian
[00:39:52] Brian: yeah. But do you know why I'm doing that? You know, like with subscriptions, there's like the decoy offer.
[00:39:57] Troy: You just
[00:39:58] Brian: two years
[00:39:59] Troy: with my verbal, my verbal calisthenics.
[00:40:02] Brian: the two years for $795, and you do that because it makes the, the offer that you want people to go for seem more reasonable. And that's the way. So I need to push you into being unreasonable to make myself look more reasonable.
[00:40:15] Alex: we're honest also, uh, Troy was the one. raising small media companies as winners and we're talking about Google and Microsoft here, so
[00:40:25] Troy: Hmm. You see, Brian, that that's what therapy does to you?
[00:40:28] Brian: But that's just substance. People don't pay attention to that
[00:40:32] Alex: So let me, let me let, let me, let me tag in, on your Google thing.
So, search competition is real. One thing I've been thinking about, wait until Apple feels pressured to switch from Google as its primary search engine because it's kind of one of the weakest part. Of the, of the experience. Right? And the second, you know, people start getting used to these AI responses.
Don't I want Siri to start behaving like that? Don't I want like the, the spotlight search on the iPhone to start behaving like that? And so that could be a huge game changer there. second thing is a lot of. AI startups are pulling the talent away. That was remaining at Google. And the way Google would retain some of that talent was by building these kind of side projects here.
We'll put balloons and make an oh submarine that can cross the ocean unattended and stuff. Like all of these projects are getting killed
[00:41:24] Troy: They did that. That's cool.
[00:41:25] Alex: I
dunno, I probably made that up. I don't know. All of these projects are getting killed at Google and that's, that's, it's gonna force a lot of their smartest minds to think like, Hey, there's a way of building something that's not. Dying. Google has one and a half, pro one, and
[00:41:38] Troy: Have you been to their office lately? Did they still make a mean curry down, down on the peninsula?
[00:41:42] Alex: been in, no, I haven't been in any offices. I know that they're trying to get people back to their offices and that's also a lot of pressure.
Um,
[00:41:49] Troy: Crab legs.
[00:41:50] Alex: I think, I think , uh, people, internally and externally don't trust that they can take time to enter new categories. They did the Stadia game thing, you know, a game studio.
Microsoft has been at it for 20 years. Like it took them a year to figure out that it wasn't worth it, and they shut it down. Like, I don't think there's faith in the company that Google sticks in it for the long term. and then,
[00:42:14] Troy: I was just about to get the Google phone. Should I still get it?
[00:42:17] Alex: Oh, they're great phones. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, Android is still fine.
I think one caveat to Google is that YouTube might become a, an even bigger winner for them. YouTube's no, Google's most exciting product, and if TikTok gets in trouble, YouTube wins a lot of it at attention. YouTube shorts is a good product. if you could feed a lot of the TikTok attention into YouTube, shorts, then YouTube could become huge, but.
Troy, what do you think about Google being a loser?
[00:42:44] Troy: Well, I think I'm extremely proud to be part of this thoughtful analysis. I, you know what my reaction is? It's probably everything you're saying is true. The thing is that, you know, first of all, , Google makes way better products than Microsoft. And so, you know, I get sad when you talk like that
[00:43:02] Alex: Used to, used to.
[00:43:04] Troy: well, I don't know.
I like Google Docs a lot. I still like Gmail. You know, Android's kind of a good product. I have those Google screens in my house. I kind of like them. But I agree with you guys. I think, I think what you're saying is true, but you know much of what Microsoft has done and I've tried and I've tried like from, you know, the way news is aggregated at MSN to the quality of PowerPoint, which is a disgrace of a piece of software to, I think their greatest product of all time is Excel.
I don't know, I just, you know, I've never really felt love, I haven't felt love for their products. The same I have for, um, many things in my life, including Apple and Google. So, I guess it hurts me what you're saying, but I agree with your logic
[00:43:50] Brian: I
think Apple is also, also, I think Apple is getting into the racket game in a very big way. I mean, they've always sort of been in the racket game with the plugs and stuff like that,
[00:43:59] Alex: but didn't it happen with Apple? Uh, two, two things just to wrap up. Uh, Troy's point about Google, Google hasn't built anything good in a long time. Troy, I think you're remembering Google of the past. You know, I used to have that same love. Optimism for Google, but they've built, like search, they've built a decent email system to copy, you know, what
was out
[00:44:20] Troy: is better than, Chrome is better than.
[00:44:22] Alex: I, I switched over to Safari. I don't even notice the difference. Safari is great and my tabs are kept between my phone and my desktop. I don't think they have any, that huge competitive advantage is gone because they keep, I think the problem with Google. Every time they have a meeting about a new product and how it's going, they look at search and they go, it's 8.8% of what search is doing for twice the effort.
Why are we doing this? And they kill it. They keep doing that and they're gonna keep doing that because they built a machine that prints money andeverybody wants to pay attention to that. I think it's sad. I think, uh, Brian, you were going to say something about Apple.
[00:44:58] Brian: Oh no. Well, that, that was a little bit of an aside probably. I mean, cuz like Apple, it was, it was from a meeting I had like earlier today. Um, and it was sort of brought home to, because like what Apple is doing to the digital advertising industry is. Remarkable. Like, and if Google did this or Microsoft did this, or if God forbid Facebook did this, there would be like protests, out in the streets.
[00:45:26] Alex: But I think what we've, what we've mentioned here true about Apple, I think the second day moved into the service business, they got worse. But I think. The issue here is that it's happening to advertising and everybody hates advertising
[00:45:38] Brian: Yeah. No, no, no. I know that there's, there's not a lot of people who are gonna stand up for the third party cookie, and that's what I'm here for because like, fine, the third party cookie had its flaws and stuff like this, but what Microsoft or what Microsoft, what Apple is doing right now to rest control the digital advertising industry.
Is remarkable and it's remarkably cynical by saying that they're another ad deal. I'm not getting that. They're, um, that it's, they're doing it for user privacy. It's total bullshit. Like you can't, everyone in the digital advertising industry, they talked to, particularly the ad tech, like everyone's talking about these identifiers.
It's just freaking email. Like email is the identifier. It's some version of a hashed email and what. Apple do. When you go to try to, like, as an, let's say as a publisher, get someone's email, they try to disguise it. Okay. They dis they offer you the thing in the name of privacy. W they are not doing that on behalf of consumers.
They're not doing that. They're doing that to keep control themselves and they're going to rent out that control because like everyone, it's, they're gonna open up a toll booth for all of digital advertising. They, it's for sure they will.
[00:46:49] Alex: Yeah. I mean it feels like it started going, going that direction the second they moved into services and IT services became an, a big part of their business. Right. And that's, um, that's gonna be interesting to watch. Shall we go, shall we re-list our winners and losers, like, recap them and then go into
good product?
[00:47:05] Brian: All right. Let's recap the winners and losers. Winner number one. Troy, how are you framing this? This, it's, it's more real media realist, the streets media.
[00:47:15] Troy: Real medium.
[00:47:16] Brian: Real media is, winner number one. we have another winner, which is clearly Microsoft. Like it or not, Microsoft's a winner. we kind of agreed on that one, right.
[00:47:26] Alex: Mm-hmm.
[00:47:27] Brian: The other one was, was I guess the backup choice. One is a talent, if you're gonna make, media products that are sustainable and can thrive in this weird, uncertain environment, you're gonna need the top talent and not filler.
And then we've got losers. We have everything from Google.
[00:47:44] Alex: Yeah. Advertising for Troy. And then, you and I have Google,
[00:47:48] Brian: Yeah.
[00:47:48] Alex: which is also advertising
[00:47:50] Brian: And Apple's a loser for trying to like kneecap advertising and just not being straightforward that they're doing that
[00:47:56] Alex: let's just put it this way. Apple. Apple is acting like a loser right now.
[00:48:01] Brian: I like my mafi
[00:48:02] Alex: your shit
[00:48:02] Brian: to be like, you know, straightforward with what they're doing.
[00:48:06] Alex: I mean, it is. It
[00:48:07] Troy: was good, you guys. I think it turned out better than I thought I would. I don't know if we offered our listeners a service today, but I think it, it was, uh, it
was decent way to go.
[00:48:17] Alex: Little
prep.
[00:48:18] Brian: week. That's just the reality.
[00:48:19] Troy: Yeah. Well, are we gonna do, are we gonna do good product
[00:48:22] Alex: Well, let's do a good product.
[00:48:23] Brian:
what do you have, Troy?
[00:48:30] Troy: What's cooking? Well, I thought about this. I think that my good product this week is related to. , headphones and, I've recently, I guess in the last six months, really started enjoying over the year headphones.
It, I feel like it puts me into my own little private cocoon. So I've been trying to find ones that I like. And, a friend of mine sent me these Apple Fancy headphones,
which is a nice gift, right?
[00:48:57] Alex: that's a wonderful gift.
[00:48:58] Troy: And,and I can't tell you that this is a good product cuz it's kind of a piece of shit and I'll explain why.
But there is something that is the good product of the week and it's, I was gonna say the knob, but that sounds bad. it's the knob or the button. I'm looking for the technical term Alex. It's the thing that isn't software that you can manipulate in the
[00:49:16] Alex: Yeah. the dial. Yeah.
[00:49:17] Troy: that it's called the digital, it's called the Crown.
I think
[00:49:20] Alex: Yeah.
[00:49:20] Troy: Okay, so I really like that I can twist this and listen and bring the volume up and down and I, and I want to tell you what the alternative is in one second. But before I do that, these headphones are brutal, and I'll tell you why the mic doesn't work. You cannot have a conference call with these headphones on and use the mic on the headphones. It does not work. Apple, you need to fix this. It's a big problem. The headphones are, yeah. They can't hear, people can't hear you. It's, it's just like, it, it's a big problem.
[00:49:48] Alex: wild.
[00:49:48] Brian: if Microsoft, if Microsoft made those, they would have the arm that comes around like, you're like a telemarketer, because they don't give a shit. They're not trying to be cool.
[00:49:57] Troy: Yeah, I also think that this big flat surface is a little unsightly. But anyway, so in contrast, we have the Sony headphones that I have on here. And they are much lighter. The mic works much better. I think they're much more comfortable and the sound quality is comparable. What's wrong with these headphones is Sony has never made decent software in their entire existence.
So they make you download their headphone app on the phone, and it's an affront to all software makers. And not only that, like getting this to connect with Bluetooth and the way the buttons work and you tap this thing, it's just like goofy. So the best product of the week is the knob or the button and the crown.
And, I'll just leave it at that. If you guys want to pile along, go ahead.
[00:50:43] Alex: I like it. It's a, it's a winners and losers in a good product, so I like it a lot. I, I, I don't understand it must be much cheaper or there must be some sort of market research that shows that touch. That pads are the way to go. Those Sony headphones, I had to turn that feature off because like I kept changing the volume or because, you know, I was brushing my hand against my ear or something like that and it feels nearly novel to turn a knob, you know, and I want those back as well.
[00:51:10] Cold open cut
[00:51:10] Brian: all right. We're gonna leave it there. thank you guys. I thought it was good. I thought that this worked out well. The, winners and Liz's we'll go, we'll go back to the, uh, regular format next week. Uh, thank you all for listening and do send feedback. I know all three of us, get it, but it's, it's been nice to hear, positive and, you know, nice critiques.
And so send in your feedback. my email is b marcy the rebooting.com.
[00:51:33] Alex: And rate and review us.
[00:51:35] Brian: Oh, yeah. Rate and review us. That's apparently how people find the podcast,
[00:51:38] Alex:


PVA S1E20
PVA S1E20
[00:00:01] Troy: I, but why don't
you tell the audience, how do you feel about this time with us, this podcast? Do you want to keep doing it?
[00:00:05] Brian: yeah, sure I wanna make money off it, but I, but that's what I keep pushing
[00:00:09] Alex: Doesn't that make you feel good, Troy? Don't you feel motivated to start the episode now? Yeah, sure. But I wanna make money.
[00:00:15] Brian: Well, I Mai Star court at my second home or a family office. Let's be real here.
I'm still working for a living.
[00:00:21] Troy: a living. Brian, Brian, just to be clear, I gotta make money too.
[00:00:24] Alex: Yeah. I mean when his second tennis court flooded, he had
to pay for, for the clean someone
[00:00:29] Brian: a squeegee. That shit.
Welcome to People Versus Algorithms, a show about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Marcy. I write the Rebooting Newsletter and have a podcast of the same name, and I'm joined each week by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young and Alex Schleifer, former head of design at Airbnb, and founder of Universal Entities.
This week we're trying something a bit different, and I promise you there. Too much talk about ai. Instead, we're focusing on decisions, how to make them when they go wrong and the tough decisions that are often forced on you. We go through life making a series of mostly inconsequential decisions. The longer your career goes on and the higher you PR progress in organizations, however, the more decisions you're expected to make and they become like a core part of your job, make enough decisions and you'll make plenty of bad ones.
Um, we see this very clearly with the Sharp U-Turn, the Silicon Valley CEOs are making right now from a series of hiring decisions that they all made during the pandemic. All of them. The wrong calls and it's become something of a ritual for Silicon Valley CEO to announce thousands of job cuts and take responsibilities for the decisions.
That led to these cuts and I wanted to discuss this topic cuz I'm fascinated by how people make decisions and, and, and the how is often dictated by, by where you're coming from. And I think with Troy and Alex we're all different and so we approach decisions differently. So we discuss everything. From how too often people hide behind data to abdicate their responsibility for making a decision to a framework Troy uses to make decisions.
I hope you find it valuable and as always would love to hear your feedback. Uh, please send me an email. My email address is bm r c rebooting.com.
Troy, let's start with you. let's start with all the decisions that are being forced on people as we enter this period of quote unquote uncertainty and turbulence and whatnot.
[00:02:48] Troy: Well, what's the question, Brian?
[00:02:51] Brian: it's a discussion. It's a discussion program, not like asking you. make a decision here about how I should, you know, answer that question. Well, I have a lot of thoughts on this.
Okay. Good.
[00:03:02] Troy: you know, there's, I mean, I suppose that when you're making a decision, and we're sort of narrowing this to a business context, you know, one way or the other, you're optimizing to something, right? So you're making a decision based on health of your business or profit or future cash flows or present cash flows. making a decision about something quantitative or qualitative that I would call product or the relationship between a product and its market or the loyalty to a product, or its ability to make money.
you're making a decision, I think, to things like people and culture and what kind of organization you want. And I think even potentially more broadly to the role you want your company to play in society or more broadly like a more expensive kind of social responsibility.
I think that the nature of decision making is essentially about trade-offs understanding, what you're trading off. the easiest way to do it is either to say, well, I'm not going to make a decision because I'm gonna defer to data or some type of quantitative test when I can say, listen, this has gotta be good for this reason, and we're gonna run an AB test and get the data back and make the decision that way.
Which is, fine, but in some ways an abdication of, you know, what would amount to be more, much more complicated, inevitably qualitative, dimensions to a decision. but, you know, there's a bunch of classics, Brian, and I think we can kick off the conversation with some of the classics the obvious one and the first one is that digital media broadly is fraught with decisions that I think have been hard for people to make, in particular.
making more money now by, say, increasing ad density, on a page versus a longer term. Aspiration to create loyalty with your market. And that would include things like, not just the number of ads per page, but things like, do you put Tabul on your page and take a guarantee from Tabula or a cash commit of some kind from Tabula versus, your decision to put more of your content there or recirculation, you know, that's the trap of, I think media and the challenge there has been because of the nature of distribution where you get a lot of one and dones people coming in from Google, getting a piece of content and leaving.
I would say the industry is characterized by a distinct lack of loyalty from the user. We've trained the user that you just grab an article and go, so you're not loyal to, to an experience and therefore, you know, you're constantly trading money for loyalty. Cuz loyalty is either too hard to measure or doesn't exist
[00:05:31] Brian: Yeah. know, that's a, that's a classic, I would call that the classic, digital media, decision trade off.
So I wanna get get back to your, your point about, Right. And, and Alex, so I think you would probably have a really good perspective on this, because I feel like we've had, we obviously have more data than we've ever had before, and it's very helpful data is, IM I important in making decisions. I don't know if you've noticed, I've, I've noticed over the years that data can easily become a crutch for decision making.
I think, Troy, you mentioned abdication because at some point decisions you have to have conviction. And I feel a lot of people do not wanna have conviction because it's riskier. Right? If you just, if you go with what the data says and you run some multi-variate tests, you're outsourcing the decision making to.
Some spreadsheet and that is an easy way to basically not have to have responsibility for it. I mean, you might be held accountable for it, but ultimately at the end of the day you're gonna say, well, I was, I was following what the data said. We see this all the time and you don't watch football. Right?
But like football is basically caught between this, like there's the data people who just follow the data and then there's the old school guys who are like, I've got a ton of experience in this, but I'm wondering your experience the product side particular, cuz I would guess that this is very acute there.
[00:06:51] Alex: Yeah, it's acute. you know, I'm a design oriented, product person, so I look at things, maybe slightly differently to a growth manager, so I don't want to sound too pretentious. You know, like I know everything, but I do feel like in Silicon Valley we had access to so much data and so much capital that it became easy to outsource decisions to data and hire a bunch of people and let them make experiments, right?
Because you had a billion people hitting your site, you could hire 10,000 engineers and run hundreds of thousands of experiments. and with like tiny margins create like hugely profitable businesses, you know? And that was Facebook. and it was fine if, if Facebook was the only one running like this, I have opinions about Facebook.
The problem is there was a, that philosophy kind of started permeating every part of Silicon Valley. And the real problem is that you lose control of the long-term outcome. and that's because any experiment that you make, especially if you're running a lot of them on a single surface, like an app, has a very short lifespan, right?
the attribution. To tell you, Hey, product manager, a, this experiment you did was successful. That needs to happen in a very short amount of time. Otherwise, that attribution gets distributed across a million other factors, right? So if you're running a million experiments, how do you really know what made a difference?
And these companies, Facebook and Google, uh, I think became entirely data led in their decision making. And I've had a lot of heated conversation, with people about that. And the problem for me was that, I was looking at these really successful businesses doing it like that.
And I didn't want to do it like that, because I didn't want to lose control over our brand or over, how we built. And also, I think a secondary effect of that is that you just train the organization never to be able to make big decisions. And I think that's what's happening to Facebook. You can't tell a company, Hey, run wild.
Just, growth hack work around the margins and all of a sudden tell them, okay, now we're gonna think about the future. That company is not programmed to think like that. They'll never be able to. And it's the same with Google. And it's why I think companies like apple are much more resilient because they have this executive courage to make big decisions and steal the company in one way, you know?
And I think a lot of the companies right now that are firing a lot of people, it's because they just, during the pandemic, looked at the data and decided to hire
a bunch of people.
[00:09:13] Brian: Everyone made this decision. These are all different people who are all very smart, and I just feel like the herd mentality of decision making is, it's in every industry. So I I, I'm like really fascinated by the fact that how every single company got the same thing wrong. Like
[00:09:30] Alex: Well, Silicon Valley. Silicon Valley has a hive mind because people move around. But you can see a few outliers in that hive mi hive mind. Right. And I think some of them, I think Apple didn't hire as much as other companies did. They didn't make the same mistakes. They stayed on, they stayed the course,
[00:09:47] Brian: Yeah,
[00:09:48] Alex: you know?
[00:09:48] Brian: cuz you brought up, you brought up Facebook and I would maybe push back cuz like I think Mark Zuckerberg, maybe the organization is actually a conviction decision maker. Like he made, he's made some big decisions that were out of conviction. Like you go back to newsfeed when everyone was squawking.
And now maybe he like just looked at the data and was saying there's always a difference between what people say and what they do. So that's But if you look at Metaverse, I'm sorry, there's no data that is telling what data could he be looking at to, to say, but bet the company on this.
This is a conviction decision. No.
[00:10:26] Alex: That makes my point though, the, the company is not ready to line up behind that conviction because the company's never been asked to do it. You know the incentive models within the company for years have not been around big decisions and long-term vision. So I, you know, I don't know if a company like that can make big things happen anymore. Does that make sense?
[00:10:44] Brian: Yeah, I think
it does. don't, know if it's, you know, I mean, back to the design conversation, Alex, I think that you once said to me that design is about the courage to have to believe in your intuition and your conviction around that. And when you don't, you get what I would call the SPK problem, or let's call
I love the.
[00:11:06] Troy: it the spark problem or the Swiss Army knife problem, where you try to be everything to everyone and the answer in many cases, Can't be.
Let's do both. And the problem with digital is it's infinitely malleable. you can design and make it whatever you wanna be, you want it to be, right? It can do all these things at once. the constraints of physicality don't get in, you know, get, get in front of you, making hard product decisions in a lot of cases.
So what a lot of people do at, at their weakest, even in to either largely to a competitive threat, is they try to do both. So Instagram was a great photo application, but we needed to make it a video application, even though that the rules of video. In terms of how you present content, how you measure it, user experience, the algorithm, everything is different with video.
you get these products that are kind of shitty at two things. And, and, I think that that faced with competitive pressure and the ability to make anything in digital, you get a lot of stuff that is, that migrates from its original use case. And I think that's where design takes real courage.
[00:12:25] Brian: Yeah. Yeah. products, a lot of the products made, the decisions were clearly made by committee, right.
[00:12:31] Troy: Yeah. I mean, I don't know if that was a, something Alex wants to respond to, but it was, was
[00:12:36] Alex: I was, I was actually trying to think as to whether or not Thank you for reminding me of how salient a point that was.
[00:12:42] Troy: What, which point Alex
just.
[00:12:44] Alex: that, it takes courage. I think. I think the organization needs to be framed in a way that allows people to have courage because nobody wants to lose their job, you know?
and so if some functions like design and potentially more kind of visual leaning functions are maybe allowed to be a little bit more courageous, you know, stuff that touches brand. But, I think a lot of organizations aren't organized like that. I did have a conversation once with someone that I won't name, where we were in a meeting trying to come up with, you know, a first release of something.
we know that we put stuff out there and we see how they work sometimes and update them, you know, that's part of the process. but there were three or four ideas and I said, well, I think we should put our energy into this one. I'd love to hear if anybody disagrees or agrees.
And a person, The product manager said, well, how do you know if it's good? how do you know that's the right one. I said, well, sometimes you just have to make decisions because if we build it four times, we're just gonna spread our effort around four things. And I think there was a real lack of understanding what that could mean to make a decision like that off intuition and put it out into the world.
You know, and it's not that I was a hundred percent sure that it was the right one, but I was relatively certain it was not one of the wrong decisions. You know, there's always like a thousand wrong decisions, 50 right ones, and try to pick one of the right ones and make it as good as you can. And we lost that a little bit in Silicon Valley because of scale, because of access to capital.
and because yeah, everybody's, it's really attractive to build everything for everyone. And Instagram is a great example, Troy. It's like, what is this thing
anymore? You know?
[00:14:20] Troy: also created the cult of the product person. everybody wanted to be it. I think the product person was elevated above b a attorney investment banker for a time, largely cuz of the influence of Silicon Valley. And when you called someone like a product person, it meant that they had this sort of level of intuition that this, that didn't exist elsewhere.
The truth is, is not, not everybody can be a product person because being a product person's like saying I'm a musician, it's, or maybe not even musician, but I'm a hit song maker. It's, uh, it's a difficult designation because it does require a kind of elusive skill and intuition and ability to kind of match.
Your ability to create something with something people want, very, very difficult. And the fact is, lots of people don't have that skill.
[00:15:16] Alex: And it must be terrifying waking up every morning with those expectations. And so you rely to just running a 10,000 experiments hoping one of them hits. You
know? not a product person. But I Yeah. that said, oh yeah, I'm a product guy.
[00:15:29] Brian: But wait, they ex explain what the
[00:15:30] Alex: Did I, did I just say
that? because there's like,
[00:15:34] Troy: A product I think, is someone who can invent, who can meet an unexpect that an un uh, identified need
[00:15:41] Alex: Yeah,
[00:15:42] Troy: who can make something that's special.
[00:15:44] Brian: but Yeah. a managerial class, right?
I mean there's like on army of product managers and they're managers. They're,
they're, to art as you get in an organization.
is Yeah. experience of
product it's not, I mean, I dunno, I'll let Troy speak to that. I've had, an interesting relationship with, with product managers. Some of the best people I've worked with at organizations were, were product managers. And some also some of the, you know, least productive, I think. And I, I agree with Troy.
[00:16:14] Alex: I mean, I think you're asking somebody to be a hit maker and at the end of the day, What I've realized is that it's usually product manager. Product manager has been turned into a function, which means like, it's like an engineer or a designer. While it should be something like a promotion because you're really good at something, right?
and so to me that has been an issue, like the idea of a junior product manager. I never understood. Does that make sense?
[00:16:42] Brian: Well isn't it because you come at things from like, for lack of a better word, a craft perspective. Like you have like a craft like that, you know, you've grown up through. Whereas a lot of people wanna skip that step and I, I get that right. They just wanna go into product cuz it sounds good and it's
[00:16:58] Alex: I think it's I mean, it's like that Rick Rubin, uh, thing that goes through, I think the craft part of it, the fact that I can do a little bit of coding, the fact that I'm a designer that I like to use tools gives me an interesting perspective on things, right? And I think it helps me, but at the end of the day, I think it's about having taste and having conviction and being able to communicate these things to a wider group and getting everybody galvanized around this idea.
And I, and I've seen, you know, I think Brian Jetski, like c e o of Airbnb is somebody, he doesn't know how to use the tools like I do. He's got a design background, but. He's got that intuition when he sees something and the ability to make decision and the ability to communicate them.
[00:17:42] Brian: Mm-hmm. , but
[00:17:43] Alex: I don't think you'd need to
[00:17:44] Brian: aren't they?
[00:17:45] Alex: Yeah, that's the point.
That's the whole point.
[00:17:47] Troy: the point.
[00:17:48] Alex: But, but we try to scale that. We try to scale the hit machine, and that's the problem. You can't scale it. Uh,
[00:17:54] Troy: Yeah.
[00:17:55] Alex: incredibly rare. It's not because maybe, I don't know if they're born like that or whatever. It's also sp people who spend a lot of time just thinking about this all the time.
You know what I mean? I might be good at some of the stuff I do, but, you know, I've suffered in other areas, like filling forms or dealing with shit in my life. I, you know, it's a, it's like not everybody should be as obsessed with this stuff as well. There's an obsession attached to it.
That's another conversation. But yeah, but that's choice point. I think
[00:18:20] Brian: Cool. Where do you wanna go with the decision thing? I feel like we got
into product. an, I got, I got another one that
I feel like Troy's getting annoyed too. So ,
I wanna avoid that.
[00:18:28] Troy: that means we get a spike, spike in listenership. I, I, uh, I'm not annoyed at all, Brian. I, I do think I would just put a, uh, uh, I would end that conversation. And this is just personal experience. hardest thing and the most important thing is what you don't include when you make those decisions.
And find that good product people have this characteristic, which is they're able to see what's really important and just kind of have the nerve and courage to say, don't put this other stuff in here. Because the truth is, is you're always, again, back to what you're optimizing too. And this is an also very, very kind of apo to a, a discussion about good design.
thing is, is that humans can't multitask very well. so you can really only ever do one thing at a time. And you have to realize that from a design perspective is you have to. on one thing, the one thing you're trying to communicate, the one function you're trying to enable, the one experience you're trying to create.
And that's really hard for a lot of business people to do cuz they kind of want it all. And, so I think that that's the essence of this decision making kind of paradigm, which is how do you really have the courage to figure out what the one thing is? think there's another decision thing that I find certainly that I've seen many times in my career.
It's one for managers and I would call it middle performer problem. And what I mean by this is there's a lot of people in the. work in an organization that might have a great virtue in what they can do. In other words, they're really, really good at something and really bad at a lot of other things.
sometimes they cause a kind of a constipation in your organization because they're, they're getting in the way of progress. But you can never come to terms with it you always say Jenny or Dave is, we can't imagine the world without them because they're so good at this and we need this and we're afraid that they don't bring this to work every day.
But the fact is, is that they also affect the organization in lots of other ways because they're getting in the way of progress, either by their personality type or how they approach problems or what they're not good at. And what you really need to do in these cases is have the courage to fire the person. But you can't bring yourself to it because they are the middle performer. They're the person that you can't see doing without. And what I found that when you do a way to either redeploy them or fire them, your organization moves forward in ways that you didn't expect. And so I think that's a very important and a very real, real case here of, decision and its inverse in the inertia of not making a decision around people.
[00:21:30] Alex: That's, that's such a, that's such a good point, Troy, as someone who's set in a lot of performance reviews I think the stuff that happens really quickly are the really high performers and in the really low performance, very easy to reach agreement there. And then there's some people who bring, yeah, some, some positive stuff to the table, but don't perform in other ways.
it's hours of time trying to, to figure out how to handle those folks. And it's,
and it's because it's, it's hard
to fire, right? Like nobody wants to
fire anyone.
[00:21:58] Brian: But you're also trying to decide as part of the decision, whether that person or whether they were just miscast by you. And I, I find a lot of times organizations blame the person versus themselves. Go figure. It's just like when all of the muckety mucks are getting together and deciding like how to make these numbers work.
They never look at themselves.
[00:22:20] Alex: I don't know. And maybe,
maybe it was May.
[00:22:22] Troy: I
[00:22:23] Brian: None of the editors decided to fire themselves. They'd decided to fire the, uh,
the
[00:22:27] Alex: Yeah, I mean, that's probably true, but I, I think that, you know, just to give people a little credit, every time I've been in a performance meeting, the hardest thing is not to stop people from firing people. People really don't want to fire people. It's the, it's the hardest thing to do.
[00:22:42] Brian: Oh
yeah.
[00:22:43] Alex: and the amount of folks I had to talk down from, you know, keeping somebody on the team which they knew wasn't performing And, and you know, willing to try all sorts of things to make that work.
I think in general, I think by the time it happens and the person's on the other side receiving it, you know, as a company you need to communicate things in a certain way. So it sounds a little bit cold, but what I've noticed happens in the room is a lot of time spent, you know, as real humans talking through that stuff.
But to Troy's point, a lot of time it's actually not good for anyone. You know, like somebody needs to make a call and hopefully that's good leadership. I know that a couple of times I've come in and sounded a little bit harsher to help a manager make a decision because it needed to move on and then felt like shit for the rest of the day because somebody had to.
So that, that type of stuff, uh, sucks. And I also think a lot of managers aren't trained to fire. Like, you know, I think a good question to ask a manager is, you know, have you ever fired anyone? Because that stuff is hard and horrible.
[00:23:46] Brian: Yeah. Trey, let's talk about like, uh, media companies right now and publishers, let's just say. They're facing a whole bunch of different challenges and a lot of them, there's a lot of just basic economic uncertainty right now from everyone I talk to. That's the word that keeps coming up. And navigating, that's obviously difficult.
Some tough decisions were already made with, with cutting people, et cetera. What are the hard decisions that you see coming down the road this year for like, let's just say big digital publishers?
[00:24:15] Troy: So many things just came to mind, Brian. The first is, generally speaking, there's. There, there's a couple ways to change your media organization, right? Like you can say, we need to sell more effectively, or we need to our sales team to, you know, differently than we have in the past to, accelerate sales growth, need to change our ad products to step underneath of it, or we need to offer better pricing or better service.
All of which I would say are constrained to the publishing organization. harder ones are the thing that we're making, the content that we're making, whether that's, you know, video or text content or event platforms or whatever we're making that needs to change for us to change our ability to make money and to orient the business around the future, et cetera.
So what you're, you're faced with there is changing a much larger. of part of the organization and waiting for it to materialize, cuz you're gonna have to change what you create. That hopefully changes the reaction of the audience, that you convert that into ad product, et cetera, and that you make more money off of it.
And if you look at digital publishing, it's been so difficult because when your nee, when your revenue needs change, you have to go back to the edit organization and say, Hey guys, we can't write point of view content or we can't write news content. We have to write comparative shopping content because we need to, monetize via affiliate.
And you, you just, like, it felt like every six months or every year there was a new thing we had to do, which either, which more often than not was in addition to all the other things that we were.
[00:25:59] Brian: Yeah.
[00:26:00] Troy: right? And, and so people didn't like to make those trade-offs. They're like, well, we need to write more a affiliated content, or We need to make more vertical video, or we need to tweet more, or we need to do, you know, whatever it is.
But by the way, you still have to keep the machine sticking and feed Google. And so the decisions, I think that it really affected editorial organizations that just had you. Sort of task upon task glaring onto one another cuz they just had to keep making more things to feed, more channels, to preserve the business.
And it was, it's really hard to make try. So the biggest one and the hardest one is to say we're a free media company that gets our bread buttered because we, we, we feed Google and we then monetize that with direct ad sales and programmatic and all that. And then what you have to say is, wait a minute guys, we're gonna be a subscription media company.
And as soon as you say that it changed the, you know, you suddenly you're like, well we have to make a different kind of content, a better, a deeper, a more important kind of content that's going to, incense, someone to say, okay, I'm willing to subscribe to it. That change, particularly because the subscription game takes so long to get traction on that change takes a long, long time and requires a huge amount of courage.
So today, to get to your answer, your question, today, what's happening is, The gig is up and there are, so all of the things that we train these companies to do are the people in these companies, which is, you know, get more page views, go after programmatic, get the affiliate lined up, you know, we're gonna go and we're gonna make more video for YouTube.
All of these things are facing diminishing marginal returns. so it's like an oh shit moment. It's like, what do I do with these hundreds of people and this organization, because we gotta invent a new way to make money and we have an enormous cost structure.
[00:27:53] Brian: Yeah, I think
that's like, no, that's a very salient point. I'm actually gonna give you a compliment here, Troy.
[00:27:59] Troy:
[00:27:59] Brian: because it reminds me of, and I, I always go back to it and I'm reminded of it. I remind myself of this, like when I, uh, go forward with the rebooting is like the major and minor point. I remember that you made, like you need to figure out your major and your minor, and you see people who try to be general studies and do everything.
And that, that can work, I believe, for the first year. But at some point you need to, you need to choose a major. And I think publishers have been in general studies, humanities for a long time, , but by necessity to some degree. But you can't do that like now and, and making the hard decisions. Like I was talking to someone at a publisher who just made cuts and I was like, well, I'm always interested.
I mean, it's, it's horrible the, the human, you know, part of it obviously. But I'm also interested in, well, what does this say about where you see the industry going and your place in the industry going I said, well, where are they cutting? Because that will tell me where their priorities are. And it was like, well, no, it's just across the board.
I'm like, that, seems weird. Like, because like why would you go through all the horrible parts of cutting people And, and it affects not just the people cup, but the people who, who remain behind. It really is traumatic to an organization without actually getting the benefits of reorienting it. And I see this, it's, a lot of it is in news publishing.
Like I was always amazed over the years and, and some of this is the unions, but like buyouts, like I can't think of a worse way to reorient your organization than to be like, okay, well we need to like cut down, uh, on our costs and so we're gonna like ask for like volunteers Take a buyout to pay that we can pay, and obviously the most people would be more likely to take that.
I, I don't know, I just feel like this is one of those problems that I see repeated all the time in publishing, I think it goes back to LA lacking conviction.
[00:30:02] Alex: Yeah,
I mean, it depend.
[00:30:03] Troy: point. Great
[00:30:05] Alex: great point. I mean, I think if you think that your strategy is correct, but you just need to be leaner to survive a little bit longer, which is what's happening to a lot of companies, you know today who can't raise enough money in tech, at least then it makes sense to cut across the board and offer people buyouts.
Although I agree with you, buyouts often give the opportunity for some of your best people to leave because they know they can get hired somewhere else. But yes, otherwisethat companies haven't refocused on certain parts of their business should make you worry sometimes.
[00:30:34] Brian: And I think the other thing is, is the companies that have come back for a second round of layoffs six weeks, eight weeks later, I think that tells me that they have no idea what they're doing. And I can't imagine people within those organizations having much faith in their leadership. I'm sorry, the economy has not, like, fundamentally, and the market has not fundamentally changed in six or eight weeks.
That to me, it's hard to maintain credibility, I think as someone who, uh, has spent most of his career in the cubicle class,
[00:31:06] Troy: Right. But, but I would just challenge you on that, Brian. I think that, that, that a bit of naivety. J
[00:31:13] Brian: oh, that's what you boss class always tell us in the cubicles.
[00:31:16] Troy: Well, but I just want you to understand how it goes. So what happens is you have a deteriorating financial position. Your pn l's not looking good, sales aren't coming in where you thought they were.
You're like, holy shit, we're not gonna make our number. and, and I think, you know, largely speaking in big organizations, you're trained to, to bring the number in, you sit down with your C F O and you map out all the savings you need, and how that translates into headcount. You say, let's rationalize against what the objective of, of, of the, you know, how we're gonna orient the business to the future.
So we want to cut here and here, and here and here. Then you bring in the rest of the people into the co your management team, and you say you've got 20. , you gotta cut 67, you gotta cut 25. And you, you try to fairly and responsibly allocate those reductions to the people on your team. And the is don't cut so much.
Don't cut so much, don't cut so much. So you tend to look at your situation optimistically, and you then hope that, you know, sales are gonna materialize, blah, blah, blah. The economy's gonna get better. Or what, you know, people are gonna sell more advertising and it doesn't happen. And so yeah, that's a mistake.
But in fairness to the big bosses as you like to kind of characterize them that are cold and don't ever fire their own and all themselves and all of that you, uh, you,
[00:32:34] Brian: all about different points of view. We got, we got, we got roles to play on this podcast. Troy,
I I'm glad that you're embracing your role.
[00:32:40] Troy: Right. I, I don't, I don't this sometimes, uh, we need to look a little bit more empathetically and expansively at the problem set and so yeah, you maybe cut a few too few people and you do it because maybe just maybe you didn't want to so many people to lose their jobs.
[00:33:01] Alex: Yeah, but I mean, I'm kind of with Brian on this one. I think that's a good
point. I, I, think that's a good point, Troy. No, I mean, look, the, the, the one thing you need to do and keep telling yourself when you're doing a layoff is that it's hard, but you only want to do it once and, and the organization is going to push back, but you're gonna be really clear about your numbers.
And six weeks feels like a really short time. And we've seen these kind of trailing
firings.
[00:33:27] Troy: number that Brian
[00:33:28] Alex: Well, well, but, but it's been happening, right? And then you see, you
see kind of some of the,
[00:33:32] Brian: was, there was, it was, there's a specific example. I don't wanna
[00:33:35] Alex: but,
[00:33:36] Brian: but
[00:33:36] Alex: right, the, so there's, you have these trailing layouts that happen that makes. It hurts everyone more. I think in the end it makes leadership look like it's, you know, doesn't know what the fuck it's doing. And I think it can happen. Sure. But it really shouldn't,
[00:33:51] Troy: I have, uh, I have a previous thing that I worked on, six, five or six laws of trade-offs that apply to this,
that I think are
[00:34:02] Alex: Alright.
[00:34:03] Troy: Briefly, if you guys don't mind,
I know
[00:34:05] Alex: Yeah. I think Brian's got 10 minutes, so let's go through them quickly.
[00:34:08] Troy: okay, well,
[00:34:08] Brian: yeah, there's somebody, there's
[00:34:10] Troy: that
[00:34:10] Brian: somebody pacing outside my WeWork room. It's fine.
[00:34:12] Troy: okay.
[00:34:13] Brian: be.
[00:34:14] Troy: Obviously the larger and more complex the business, the harder it is to make trade-offs that under particularly the ones that risk undermining your core business.
And that's the, the territory of classic disruption, right? Introduce someone, a competitor introduces a product or service that's hard for an incumbent to imitate because doing so will compromise their legacy franchise. So when it's core, when it's big, it's harder to do. Number two, are more difficult to execute when the user base is heavily invest invested in the solution.
So that's like the trade-off of changing Instagram that alienates the Kardashians. So any change that you have to make, which really, really affects a core part of the user community, particularly when they feel a deep sense of ownership in that product. Very, very hard, hard to do. other is what I would call the crack pipe rule, immediate cash is off crack. right? Once it touches your lips, it's hard to put down. so you do is you forget about the long term, like losing your teeth and your family and all the bad things that come with crack. you know, pure audience arb as an example, is fine if that's your game, but it never lasts, ever, ever lasts.
And the, the trade off crack is like Taboola get it on your pages. It's impossible to ever get off, right?
[00:35:37] Brian: Autoplay video with sound. Give you another hit
[00:35:40] Troy: hit right gimme another hit of the crack pipe. I would say trade-offs are much more difficult to make in multi-variate scenarios. Like the advertising consumer example that I just gave,
[00:35:50] Brian: Yeah.
[00:35:51] Troy: it's much easier when you have one constituency to please.
And would say, here's another one. If you really understand the value you offer a customer You with me. If you really understand that value, then you can make good trade-offs because saying let's do both is an abdication of your responsibility. you'll never be great at anything.
[00:36:12] Brian: aren't all publishing businesses, like literally the multi-variate businesses in that, like who you're optimizing to is changing constantly. Sometimes you're optimizing to the audience if you wanna get subs. Sometimes you're optimizing to the Like it sometimes you're optimizing to the
platform.
[00:36:30] Alex: I think, that's the problem with media businesses, like that's why the products suck, man.
I mean, I think that those were really first, Troy, those were really good, points,
but, um,
[00:36:39] Troy: but,
[00:36:40] Brian: Oh
[00:36:40] Alex: oh, sorry.
[00:36:42] Brian: It's like a
[00:36:42] Alex: but I
[00:36:43] Brian: It's like nature.
[00:36:44] Alex: six is weird,
[00:36:45] Troy: this
[00:36:45] Alex: but Go ahead.
[00:36:46] Troy: what it meant. It said, your trade off
[00:36:48] Brian: Troy. It's trade offs. You gotta, you gotta make difficult decisions. So cut
[00:36:52] Alex: Yeah.
[00:36:53] Troy: the logic is only as good as the behavioral mechanics that inform it. You're a pebble in the sea and,
[00:37:00] Alex: okay.
[00:37:01] Brian: Oh my
[00:37:01] Alex: when you wrote that one.
[00:37:03] Brian: I would cut
[00:37:03] Alex: Yeah.
[00:37:04] Brian: Cut that one.
[00:37:05] Troy: all right, all right, all right. I think that's, I think that's pretty close to you. You can't do both.
[00:37:10] Alex: Yeah, exactly.
[00:37:10] Brian: That was always the thing with with editing, because editing is a lot of like, you know, you just gotta make decisions. The writer basically outsources the decisions about what to take out. That's why like all like Cks and like mine particularly are too long because like nobody's making the decisions to cut shit.
But it was always like, do, should we cut from the bottom was always like the laziest editor thing of like magazines. It's like, oh,
we
[00:37:31] Alex: Mike?
[00:37:32] Troy: the aphorism in product management is what Alex Good, fast, and cheap
[00:37:36] Alex: Yes, yes,
[00:37:38] Troy: That's
[00:37:38] Alex: fast and cheap Peak two. decision triangle of product management. You can have it good and fast. No. Can you have it good and fast?
You can have it good and fast, or you can have it good and cheap, but you can't have it good and fast and cheap. Yeah. Although you know that. Yeah. You know, I
think sometimes.
[00:37:54] Brian: slow and expensive? That's where I want to be.
[00:37:56] Alex: I mean, I think, look at Facebook, they've been spending billions of dollars over years on, and they still don't have a good metaverse.
So I don't know.
Depends on the scale, I guess.
[00:38:05] Troy: I, think that was good. Are we, are we want, is, are we reaching the ends of the
[00:38:09] Alex: Well, we are, but we need a good product,
[00:38:13] Troy: I, I'm looking forward to sharing this one with you, and it was informed by my weekend. And I, I, there's a bit of a buildup to this, so just be
[00:38:20] Brian: Oh dear.
[00:38:20] Troy: please.
I'm, I'm interested in brands that are rooted in imperfection and I used to have this thing Jill would, Jillian, my wife, would say to me, she would always refer to my friends as the idiots. And cuz they're, they're, most of them are. As or more imperfect than I am. And so I love that expression and the word hadn't been outlawed.
So I, I used to have these events called Idiot Weekend, and I would make schwag and we'd invite all the idiots and they were maybe like a cast of characters through my whole life. All of them deeply, deeply imperfect. And so when I was young, I I had this idea that I would create a, a company called Negative Brands.
And my first negative brand was called Disappointment tm. I thought that it was the perfect kind of anecdote to everything that brands aspired. Like. It was the opposite of what brands aspired to be like. They represented this kind of fake imperfect or this fake perfection. And I love the idea of disappointment as a brand.
Cuz you know, when you buy something, you ultimately, you're always disappointed. so, anyway, that's where this whole thing started. And then this weekend I go to Buffalo. And I go to Buffalo because, because I like football a lot, but also because a friend of mine who, who I care about a lot convinced me that I had to, he's a massive Buffalo fan.
I had to go to the game, the playoff game with him. And what I discovered is I discovered a lot of things. I discovered that town of Buffalo is a beautiful place everybody in that town is a football fan. And the funny thing of is what the brand of the Buffalo Bills does for them is the brand represents really sort of lovable losers.
they've made it to four Super Bowls. They've never won, won. They always, if you drive into Buffalo, the sign below, welcome to Buffalo should read. There's always next year. they always seem to kind of fuck it up. And they, and there's this great community around the idea that, Of this brand of sorrow that is the Buffalo Bills.
It is a really, the brand that's so important to this community. That's about, eh, we never quite get there. And I, and I love that. And it, it, it's, it's a great product because it brings people together, it's community. They share in their sorrow and it's this kind of, people love it that don't live there.
There's a lot of Buffalo Bills fans that, that live all over the country, and it's a small market team and all that, but it's, there's this kind of loser dom to the brand
[00:40:49] Brian: Yeah,
[00:40:50] Troy: kind of love. It's a catalyst for community. So, just a couple last things in Brian. I would invite your, your comments on this, but the, and, and Alex, so the one was, I was so concerned about the brand of Buffalo.
I think that the bookies got the odds on the game all. Because, you know, Buffalo was meant to be the best team this year in the N F L, but my take is they're buffalo, they're losers. And so I bet heavily for the Bengals that bet paid off and, and, and paid for a large part of my trip, fortunately. So I, I'm very happy about that.
So I hedged, and then I was thinking, well, what are other brands that are like this kind of, that have this quality or characteristic? some things came to mind. There are many in music, whether that's like, you know, losers, like the Sex Pistols that people love for that reason. Or in automotive there's, you know, the, I think the SOB brand was about that.
It's kind of this quirky, weird, shitty car that everyone loved. Maybe
[00:41:46] Alex: I think that's a
North American point of view.
[00:41:49] Troy: Yeah, , well, I'm gonna open it up to the floor right away. I think there's a lot of dogs that fit in this category, like short legs or pushed in the face, or they have no hair and you know, people like 'em for that reason.
So, that's my product of the week. It's the Buffalo Bills. It's a great brand and it's a great brand just because it represents sorrow.
[00:42:10] Brian: it's, authenticity, right? you know it's Wabi sabi? Do you know the Japanese aesthetic of Wabi sabi?
[00:42:16] Troy: right.
[00:42:17] Brian: It's rooted in imperfection and transients.
[00:42:19] Troy: God going to the gift shop, Brian, the gift shop there was like going to the gift shop at the Vatican. I mean, it was like people were crazed buying all this junk.
[00:42:28] Brian: I mean, I'm an Eagles fan. I, I understand this. The problem is, like reminded of, of the Red Sox, like they used to be lovable losers and they actually called their team when they won the World Series. They were nicknamed The Idiots, you know, Johnny Damon. And all the, there were shaggy hair. The Yankees were, you couldn't have hair below the collar and no beards.
And certainly no tattoos. I mean, these days you can have face tattoos, but th times have changed. The problem is like lovable losers end up, they don't stay that way ideally, unless they're Cleveland. And know, Buffalo probably had the most talented team in the NFL this year, other than the Philadelphia Eagles who are gonna win the Super Bowl.
So it's, I mean, I get it.
I.
[00:43:10] Troy: what? I, I don't wanna make predictions, but they're not gonna win the Super Bowl.
[00:43:13] Alex: Oh God. This is turning into the
text chat. I'm gonna leave now. This,
[00:43:16] Troy: No, no, The 49ers are gonna win the Super Bowl.
[00:43:20] Alex: God,
[00:43:21] Brian: are you one of those
[00:43:22] Alex: you guys can,
[00:43:22] Brian: becomes like a football fan of like places you lived for like two years?
[00:43:26] Troy: Yes.
[00:43:27] Brian: Well, it's not as bad as the people who root for the cowboys.
[00:43:29] Alex: I think that's pretty honest though. I can't think of any brands that are like that, that aren't like people or, I don't know.
[00:43:35] Brian: Well, I think what people want in like typically is aspiration and they don't aspire to be losers, right? Like you always want, I think that's, but I think it, it works better when it's like personified to some degree. Like I don't, despite Wabisabi, I think most people don't want to pay a premium for shit.
That's a little dinged up,
[00:43:55] Alex: I mean, there's, there's a couple of things. You know, imperfect foods was a good idea. You know, it's just like about delivering all these kind of usual caste.
[00:44:03] Brian: to get that.
[00:44:03] Alex: Yeah, yeah. and then,
um,
[00:44:05] Brian: gnarly
[00:44:06] Alex: I know that, yeah, but they're, they're tasty. And, and I don't know, I think there's ironic brands, but not that many, that really embrace that imperfection because, um,
[00:44:15] Brian: must offend you, right?
[00:44:17] Alex: I mean,
we, we reject it. as a brand idea when you can see yourself in it, and when the Yeah. that forms around the brand is about healing because of that imperfection, right? So
You, you know, I'm gonna say I think we like in imperfection, because we like the underdog as well, and sometimes it feels like that, you know, we root for the underdog. And I think in the beginning, Elon and Tesla was kind of one of those brands where he
was like,
[00:44:41] Brian: didn't see this coming.
I like it.
[00:44:42] Alex: I think that in the beginning people were kind of rooting.
Yeah, okay. Sometimes the doors don't close, but all right, cars are late. And he would tweet like, oh, we're about to shut down. Or, I'm sitting, on the floor. kind of, you know, responding to people when they were saying shit was broken on their cars and he was tweeting at them and it felt genuine that he, you like, you were kind of participating in this experiment with him.
And I think it actually, it's funny because it's such a kind of, Polished product, but at the same time, you felt, there was trust between you and the producer. At least in the beginning I felt. So maybe that's a brand that fit that in the beginning. I don't
know. Spicy take.
I know.
[00:45:19] Troy: I, have a bad product from the.
I was with my, my friend brought his son and he's like really into gear and how things work and know, home electronics and all that. And we got to the hotel and the shower. It was a moan shower in the hotel room and it was like a human car wash.
It had seven heads and an electronic, uh, flat screen controller. And I couldn't figure out how to turn on the shower in a way so I could just have a shower. it had all these incomprehensible digital controls. And so, my friend's son had to kind of show me how to turn the shower on, which is really felt like a vision of the future.
he turned on, they had mood lighting so you could do calm. I don't know, whatever, calm or like, agitated or whatever. And so he turned on the pink lights. He's like, look at this. We can turn on pink lights in here, and I can make aroma. Uh, there's a, there's a steam setting that will shoot out, like eucalyptus or whatever.
And I couldn't figure out that evening how to turn the light off, which made me feel terribly old. Had to leave the Hmm. in the shower Anyway.
[00:46:30] Alex: Uh, it's true. rooms, that this just goes into the travel thing. And I, I love the travel thing because they're overly complicated and they need to be simplified greatly because it's very stressful to not know how to like, put down the blinds or turn off the lights and stuff like this.
[00:46:48] Brian: And view is like hotel rooms in general, because people are an unfamiliar place, should really think about when they're making their decisions. What can we take out rather than what can we add? I was. a hotel in Miami in December and there was a pool DJ button that was available to me. I don't know what, what, what it did exactly and nobody, I asked people at the hotel, they couldn't actually explain to me why, what the pool DJ button is.
But I think this is an affliction of all hotels
[00:47:16] Alex: I think anybody that, yeah, I mean, this is near and dear to me. Uh, hotel rooms are often designed by someone who's obviously never slept in one of them. So you can't charge your phone somewhere practical or the, or, or you pick a shower that requires a manual. But also like I think to all the other designers, this is a message.
Industrial designers working on faucets, showers, just fucking stop. there's a way that everybody understands where you can go hot or cold and turn a thing on or off or send it to the shower, to the, you know, whatever, like baseline, all of the shit should work.
I don't understand why we still have usability issues with showers. That's crazy.
[00:47:57] Troy: this one had, iPad hammered to the desk you could control everything in the rooms, drapes, lighting, all of that. If you, if you were diligent, there's no way that my mother could have ever figured out how to turn the lights on. And, but the issue with the shower subsystem is it wasn't connected to the main iPad system, so the lights in the shower could not be turned off with the great big iPad that was
controlling The. rest of The, room.
[00:48:24] Alex: Troy knows that I'm very much into technology and gear. My home is what you would call a smart home, right? All my lights are smart, but the rule here is that everything I can do needs to be available via a real button on a wall that somebody's gonna switch, because I never want to get the phone call if somebody's staying over.
How do I turn off the lights? How do I turn on the tv? That
stuff is
[00:48:45] Troy: Al. Al.
[00:48:46] Alex: ridiculous.
[00:48:47] Troy: Watch this. Okay. Google turn off Garden. You see that
[00:48:50] Alex: That's great. Podcasting. Yeah. The lights went slightly dimmer on Troy's face. Uh, for all the
listeners, it was, we, we wish you were here with
us to
experience
[00:48:59] Troy: turn on Garden.
[00:49:01] Brian: Very, very exciting. But we
[00:49:03] Alex: Uh,
[00:49:03] Brian: could do a whole episode on, on the hotel room usability crisis. That's,
[00:49:08] Alex: oh, Jesus. It's, yeah.
[00:49:09] Brian: attention out there, but I think someone who wants to start a brand called The View from Premium Economy, I, I would love to discuss this.
[00:49:19] Troy: Yeah.
[00:49:19] Alex: Come on,
[00:49:20] Troy: I think we should look into starting is disappointment.
[00:49:22] Brian: disappointment, What? What's
[00:49:24] Alex: tm.
[00:49:25] Troy: Yeah. It's just a brand. It's called disappointment. I
[00:49:27] Alex: a brand,
[00:49:28] Troy: on a t-shirt.
[00:49:29] Alex: it's t-shirts and when you order them, they're always slightly too small.
[00:49:31] Brian: Thank you so much for listening. As a reminder, the best way you can support this podcast is to rate and review it. this helps people, find this podcast. And also if you really do enjoy it, please refer it to other people cuz that is the other way that people find podcasts. And this is why Podcast Discovery needs to be solved.
we'll be back next week with a new episode.
[00:49:53] Troy: Troy, do you wanna say something to the audience? no, I just think that they should appreciate a smugness free zone
[00:49:58] Brian: I didn't think that we were smug.
[00:49:59] Alex: No, He's saying others are smug.
[00:50:01] Brian:


PVA S1E21
PVA S1E21
[00:00:01] Troy: Brian, say something smart.
[00:00:02] Brian: I don't wanna say anything smart until the podcast begins.
[00:00:04] Troy: That's true. You, you don't have that much to go around.
[00:00:07] Brian: Why are you attacking me?
[00:00:08] Troy: Okay. I love it.
I'm looking forward to it. I'm highly skeptical that this format's gonna work, but I'm in
it.
[00:00:14] Brian: Perfect. that's the optimistic, view. welcome to People versus Algorithms, a show about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Marcy. I write the Rebooting newsletter and have a podcast with the same name. I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young and Alex Schleifer, former head of design at Airbnb, and founder of Universal Entities.
This week as we enter the Bleakest month, at least, if you're stuck somewhere cold, we discuss. Optimism is like freedom. Who can possibly be against it? And freedom, optimism can be misused, at least in my view. put another way I have a degree of skepticism of self-proclaimed optimist, and I know this is a hard case to make, but I try to make it in this episode because I do not believe that.
Being an optimist is an identity, and sometimes, and not always, it should be remembered. Optimism is used to hand wave around difficult questions and critical thinking. Those pointing to flaws or downsides are cast as cynics. And what's ironic in this is that the people using optimism as a cover are actually the ones who are being cynical.
So we discuss all these issues from our different points of view. on some we agree, some we don't agree, but I hope you find it valuable. Before we do get to the conversation, one quick request. please give this podcast a rating and review. Hopefully both will be positive, but it's okay if it's not.
And if you do like it, please share it with someone you believe would find it valuable, and also send in your feedback. My email is b Marcy, the rebooting.
Troy, I wanna start off, do you consider yourself an optimist?
[00:02:04] Troy: definitely, yes.
[00:02:05] Brian: Of course you do. Go on, tell me why. Give me the case for, for being an opt.
[00:02:09] Troy: I just always see, a way that we can make something better, that something's gonna turn out for the best that, you know, people have, generally speaking, good intentions. I, I'm just, it's in my dna. I'm an optimist.
[00:02:22] Brian: Okay,
[00:02:23] Troy: I, I, it's not, I'm not, I'm not proclaiming it as a great virtue. It's just, it is.
I'm an optimist.
[00:02:28] Brian: But is it like, optimism is different from being an optimist in my view. but we can get to that later. Uh, Alex,
[00:02:35] Alex: Am I an optimist or is Troy an optimist? Is, what's the question?
[00:02:38] Brian: No. I let, we don't, let's not examine Troy's optimism. Are you, are you an optimist? And like, what, what, what actually makes an optimist?
[00:02:46] Alex: I think I'm an, I I always considered myself an optimist. My friends have said I am overly optimistic. after making this podcast, I've been. Negative and pessimistic. I don't know. I think I, I sometimes use this
podcast to vent, but, no, I think I'm an optimist. I think I've been, you know, that optimism's been dinged during the pandemic a little bit, but you know, it's coming back.
but why do you think it was dinged? I think optimism in general. I mean, I have my own theories about it, uh, which I'll get into a little bit. but I think actually the pandemic led to almost reverse in some ways. There was this bifurcation of catastrophic of people who saw nothing but negativity in everything.
[00:03:26] Brian: And I think that's overly reflected in the media, and the media needs more optimism in general. but on the other hand, because it was an incredible time of, Financial gain to be, to be had by pedaling optimism. and often it was done by cynical people in my view. but I think it was actually a golden time for, for self-proclaimed optimists
[00:03:49] Alex: During the pandemic.
[00:03:50] Troy: during the pandemic. Because optimism is one of those things where how can you be against optimism? And who wouldn't want to like say that they're an optimist, right? Like, who goes around and says, I if you're on some job interview, it's like, what, how would you describe yourself?
[00:04:03] Brian: Uh, pessimistic, you know, mostly Unless you're hiring a reporter, then you're like, okay, this, I could work with this. but I think that because like if you think about a lot of the,
[00:04:14] Troy: So there's, are you saying there's different varieties of optimism? That's a better way to look at it. So like, gimme, gimme an example. So in, in preparation, you know, I like to be, uh,
[00:04:23] Brian: You do your homework, Troy.
[00:04:24] Troy: Well, no, I, I was at an office yesterday and I asked one of the young, uh,
[00:04:29] Brian: Wait, that was your preparation. You just like
[00:04:31] Troy: No, I went to a millennial and I said, are you optimistic?
And he said, very much so.
And I said, why? And he talked about technology and he talked about it just being kind of his orientation. I said, are your parents optimistic? And he said, no. And I said, well, how old are they? And he, he said, they, they had me late. They're like late sixties. They're neurotic, New York, Jewish civil rights lawyers, and they wear helmets and reflective vests to cross the street.
And he said,
[00:04:59] Brian: You're
[00:05:00] Troy: said, they, I'm not making it up. And he said, you know, they gotta be somewhat optimistic because they're civil rights lawyers and they believe that their work can lead to a better future. And I said, that's interesting. So you're, but you, you see yourself as very much an optimist. He said, yeah, I think everything, I think it's gonna be bumpy in the world, but there's so many amazing things happening with technology.
And generally I'm a kind of, I believe people, ultimately get to the right thing. He said, I'm an optimist. I said, do you think that. Gen, gen Z are, have a different point of view on the world, like the generation below you. And, and he said, you know, they're different. He said, it's kind of a, it's the end of the world and I feel fine vibe, which is sort of like, everything's all up, but I'm just gonna gonna navigate it and, you know, have a good time.
And so he, I thought that was an interesting perspective
[00:05:49] Brian: So I do believe that it's somewhat generational. I think that there's a big difference between millennials and Gen Z because millennials got the hood pulled over them. in so many different ways, and this is why I don't believe the op, the opposite of being an optimist is a cynic. I believe it's being a realist.
and what optimist, self-proclaimed optimists who often u are bullshitters who just use optimism as cover, they usually brand those who are realists as cynics because that's just how they get leverage over them. Right. And I think that was done in many cases to millennials. They had, you know, a lot of bullshitters, convinced them that like the work was like play and that like the office was a family and that like technology was gonna unite the world and everything like this.
[00:06:34] Troy: who did that?
Who's responsible for that nonsense? Was that a generational thing?
[00:06:38] Brian: the bullshitters. Yeah. The older people who were bullshitting them.
[00:06:40] Troy: The Gen. The Gen Xers.
[00:06:42] Brian: Gen X mostly boomers. The boomers are the most cynical generation by
far.and so through their own gains, right? Like they had to bullshit them through by playing into this, the optimism of youth, right?
And my belief is that Gen Z has seen this and they're way savvier and they're like, you are not going to pull this same act on us with the free food, with the scooters in the office And I think that is really good because
[00:07:09] Troy: Alex used to design all that merch for Airbnb.
[00:07:13] Brian: good job, I mean, look the people, a lot of people got very rich too. But like nowadays, a lot of people who, in Silicon Valley, I believe are finding out that a lot of that stuff was just words. It wasn't actions, right? You could work for Google for 25 years and your key card doesn't work.
[00:07:28] Alex: I, I mean, I agree, I agree with this. maybe we should separate the perks from the kind of weird cult-like philosophy that this company were putting in, in, into that. Because I think a lot of the perks was just because it was a competitive market and, it was expensive to hire people, expensive to lose people.
So making people feel comfortable, uh, was a calculation that they were doing and saying, okay, well let's just make these places great to work. It turned in many places into something. I never was comfortable with a family talk because I always thought, I don't think that's healthy. you know, I think
those were two different
[00:07:59] Brian: way. Helpful. To whom or for whom? I don't know, one or the other.
[00:08:04] Alex: I, I think a lot of the perks that people were putting into offices, weren. Cynical. I think they were just you know, wow, these, people are in high demand. Like, you know, you treat basketball players really well, you know? I don't know. So I think there was a little bit of that, right?
[00:08:18] Brian: Well, no, I meant, I meant the family thing cuz the, the, the,
[00:08:21] Troy: Yeah, I like that line from the video, Brian, who started the confusion between hiring and
[00:08:26] Brian: yeah, yeah. Let's, let's get into the video because like, I think that video exposes to me the sort of downside of the optimism talk.
[00:08:36] Troy: Troy, you, you shared with us like a video on the last Great Social network and the home. And the home of, of Optimist, which is LinkedIn.
Right, that's true. it was an interview between someone outside of the camera and a woman who had just been laid off from a big tech company and it was really, really good.
Do you wanna play a
clip,
[00:08:55] Alex: We celebrated the company tripling its revenue in a year. What happened a month later? We are so poor who robbed us. But while it lasted, the company was a huge part of my life. Huh? Huge. Other than my government ID proofs. Company name is everywhere. T-shirt, bag, water bottle, pen, notebook, cap, coffee, mug, mask, weekends, everywhere, company name.
It is, uh, easier. It was easier to forget my ex than it is to forget this company now. Mm-hmm. . Next job. I'm gonna bluntly say no to any company merchandise Only package. No baggage. That's a great line. That's a great
line. Troy, you made a lot of, Merchant your day, but we,
we had a no landfill rule, right? We didn't want things that would end up in landfill. Like trying to make things
that people wanna wear.
[00:09:38] Brian: I am still using, what do they call those little shaving kit bags. that's like made out of like tires or
[00:09:44] Troy: Yeah. Yeah. Recyclable. Yeah.
[00:09:46] Brian: from, say media. It's still in use.
[00:09:48] Alex: You don't seem to be worried about your career. You seem really calm. I am calm because I am a techie and techies are calm because they know they will always have come, come as in work. So it's like you can you fire the cook from the re.
No problem. The cook and file her kitchen, her cloud kitchen, anywhere. Now qui are cooks. We are agile. As long as there are apps and appetite cooks and techies will have come. We are the calm. So you're not worried about Chad G P T taking your job. Then you have to stop saying this. You sound like that guy when the calculators were invented.
Oh, calculators are here. They're gonna steal jobs. Whose jobs? Those guys who can only add and subtract. Oh, even if chat G p D can take away our jobs, they'll have to get in line behind geopolitics and pandemic. And investors. And shareholders. I lost my job because the investors of the company were not sure their investment will become 400 x in the coming year.
How will we go to Mars? Someone else lost job because the investors thought, Hmm, if the other company can lay off 12 K people and still work as usual, shouldn't we also try? Artificial intelligence can never overtake human paranoia and human curiosity. That's incredible
and optimistic.
[00:11:04] Troy: The next
line is the,
is the money
line.
[00:11:06] Alex: AI can only do what human beings have been doing. Only humans can do what no human has ever done before. Have 24,000 people been laid off in a year level before? Don't blame technology. Yesterday's postman is today's delivery executive. Yesterday's says, admin is today's cloud engineer Chad.
G d is not eating into our jobs. Chad, g p d has already made a meal out of my four year engineering course. Universities will have to do a course correction now, pun intended. What is there to be taught after all, memorizing has been outsourced to the robot. Creativity and how to use chat. This is great.
Great.
[00:11:45] Brian: yeah, but I think it also, it, it, taps into the what is optimism going forward, right. Because I think optimism in, the meme around like that's a zero interest rate phenomenon. Like there was so much stuff that happened during the last few years, but even really going back the last decade, that was really a result of, You know, an era of easy money and a lot of the growth that was happening was artificial at the end of the day.
And, you know, I was reading something in the ft the other day about preparing us for the long grind ahead, cuz nobody does the opposite of optimism, whatever it is, whether it's realism, pessimism, recidivism like Brits and winter. and so I think what we're going to see is like a reorientation of what optimism means, because let's just talk about like, how can you as like a leader portray optimism, particularly at a, time of difficulty, we see a lot of the CEOs with their memos when they're cutting all of these jobs that are, it's almost an impossible task.
I was reading the Spotify guy, uh, Daniel X won and he's like, of course he's striking the optimistic tone and talking about how this is an opportunity for him to get back to like working on the product and stuff. It's like, what, what about all the people? You just like shit canned. I mean, not the time for your optimism.
So I think it's a hard balance going forward and I think a lot of the optimism playbook is gonna have to be rewritten for a different time.
[00:13:14] Troy: well, struggling with that and wanting to use technology in a productive way and struggling with the overall concept of this episode. I went to chat G b T
and
and I know that this is the most, as will,
[00:13:28] Brian: this is
already hackneyed.
[00:13:29] Troy: It's so bad. Yeah. When, when, when. Look, I'm gonna write a paragraph on my piece from chat.
G b T. Look, it's indistinguishable from what I would've otherwise written. Having said all that, I did ask, chat g b t what the qualities of an optimistic person were. And I was, pleasantly surprised with the results. We had a long conversation about optimism in its opposite and blah, blah, blah.
But here's, here's where it gets good. So there's a few in here. I think you'll like positive outlook. Uh, resilience. That's a good one.
Right? Being resilient. confidence. I think that's kind of, uh, obvious. Flexibility is a key characteristic of, of optimistic people. Gratitude. That was a nice unexpected little ad by Chachi pt.
Thank you very much. Uh, an active approach, which is kind of a bias towards doing things as opposed to cogitating or waiting or expecting something good to guy come your way. And the last one that really surprised me was empathy. So these were contributions from the friendly robot o over at OpenAI and uh, I thought pretty good.
[00:14:29] Brian: Yeah. No, those, those are tremendous. Those sound like great qualities. Here's my issue. It's not with optimism, it's with optimists. Okay. And I think that there's actually a difference because optimism itself is wonderful, but people who proclaim themselves, optimists they're usually trying to sell you something because they're b a lot of times and not all optimist.
Hashtag they're actually bull#$ˆ*ers who are using optimism. And we see this all, all the time. And to me, bull#$ˆ*ers go on a continuum between marketers and conmen. uh, excuse me, con artists, because there's a lot of them out there, . you know, the most harmless are, are marketers, but the most pernicious are the con artists.
and we've seen like, would you describe Adam Newman as an optimist?
[00:15:10] Troy: Yeah, for sure.
[00:15:11] Brian: Okay. Elizabeth Holmes.
[00:15:13] Troy: There's something darker in there.
[00:15:15] Brian: Sam Bankman Freed.
[00:15:16] Troy: Hmm.
Probably an optimist. yeah,
[00:15:18] Brian: yeah, he was a effective, altruism is like a complete optimistic thing. The problem that I have is that it's
cover.
[00:15:26] Troy: Are there,
any great men or women that are not optimistic?
[00:15:29] Brian: optimistic, yes, but like self-proclaimed optimist,
[00:15:34] Alex: Isn't it always about intent though? Optimism is a very powerful feeling, and if you get other people to be optimistic, they will follow you. So it's great for Conmen. but it's also great for designing the future, right? Like I've worked for people in my life that were really optimistic, sometimes unreal unrealistically.
So, but that's what drove us to do better work. Troy is one of them. Brian's one of them. but I think it's, it's something that feels, that is potent. So, you know, people that want to trick you will use it, including advertisers, which I put in the same category as Conmen, essentially. It's just
[00:16:09] Brian: Yeah,
[00:16:10] Alex: of it.
[00:16:10] Brian: It's a continuum. It's a, it's the most harmless continuum. It's fine.
[00:16:14] Alex: yes.
[00:16:15] Troy: I, I actually think that I would separate the people you meet in organizations not as optimist and pessimists. I find that there are, Optimist and pragmatists are realists that we cast, that optimists, casts cast at the worst of times as pessimists because they tell the optimist that what they're trying to do in the timeframe they're trying to do it can't be done
[00:16:39] Brian: Yeah.
[00:16:39] Troy: and you need and those people, I always found that I needed those people because I, I could wreck places with my optimism.
[00:16:47] Brian: So like WeWork for instance. I was at WeWork yesterday. it was kind of empty, but, I, I love WeWork. I was at one, our last podcast, in, in Miami. It's like the guy made something amazing, shared offices have existed before and stuff, but WeWork is filled a real need.
What he needed was not another optimist with Masa. What he needed was a realist and he didn't get that. And so I feel like a lot of times we almost overrate the role of optimists because an optimist without someone to call bullshit on their bullshit.
Because optimists do sometimes bullshit because they make up things that are not reality. they end up getting in trouble.
[00:17:24] Alex: Yeah, but so do, I mean, I think it's a problem with the definition, right? So do pessimists in a different way. you know, I've been in meetings with people who are
just like, they're trying to find the thing wrong with something. but I think you were right. calling them pragmatist. I think you want everyone to be a pragmatist so that you can have optimism kind of defined, right?
What, what that means.
[00:17:45] Brian: Yeah. But I think being a pragmatist, you can, you're actually being optimistic like through pragmatism because like if you're just blindly optimistic and you're setting, let's say forecasts or goals, cuz I've seen this like up close, you set forecasts or goals that are so out of whack and privately you know that you're not going to reach them.
But outwardly you're just, you're just putting
on the cloak of optimism and
that's my problem.
[00:18:13] Alex: nobody, nobody comes third in a race thinking that they're not gonna win. So even if you want to get, even if you want to just participate in a race, it's a hundred meter, hurdles and you see a line of, dudes there, you know, that denmark's not gonna win it, but that guy thinks he might. And I think you need kind of that optimism to push you to even getting fourth, fifth, or sixth. that make sense?
[00:18:33] Troy: Mm-hmm. .
Yeah. Yeah. I want to un try to untangle something maybe that's connected to that. in some of the kind of hustle porn stuff on LinkedIn, I, someone had posted a video yesterday, a classic Steve Jobs clip, where he talked about organizations as being value systems or, or, or they're about values and that they were, he was about to launch the new creative for the kind of rebirth of the brand.
And it was the think different creative, and, you know, it was the outsiders, the people that think differently, the people that challenge convention. And it was all, you know, it was Muhammad Ali and Einstein and all that stuff, and. he was clearly one of those wild kind of I impractical, visionary, optimist people that created, hugely aspirational goals for an organization in a group of people, under it, doing things that people never thought possible.
And I wonder what would the value system be of a company that was led by an optimist versus led by a pragmatist? so the whole idea of that campaign was the people that break rules, the people that think differently, the people that set higher goals for themselves and for others.
Are those optimists the Dreamers,
[00:19:47] Brian: It's, it's a marketing campaign.
[00:19:48] Troy: It's not, it's, I mean, it is of course, but it's meant to
be a reflection of the aspirations of a company and a group of people.
[00:19:54] Alex: but the Braveheart speech is a marketing campaign, right? That's like how you motivate, but you motivate people to do something that you believe in, right? It could be buying ice cream. In this case, I think Steve Jobs, was trying to set a different tone for the company and it was influential.
[00:20:09] Troy: Yeah, I guess I just don't know how you, are a entrepreneur or a CEO or someone that wants to affect great change without being even naively optimistic.
[00:20:18] Brian: Oh, I think so. Just to be clear, I'm not arguing against optimism at all. Like, I think that like optimism and having a positive outlook on like what could happen while understanding the downsides and the difficulties is the most powerful and essential thing no matter what you're doing. and it's like proven time and again, like the outcomes for.
Cancer patients are far better. And one of the biggest like influences on that is having a positive outlook. without a doubt, if you go into cancer being like, this is it. Like there's a better chance and it's like proven out, right? And so, yeah, I don't doubt that at all. I think the difficulty ends up being is particularly when you're leading an organization, there can sometimes be a disconnect to what I've noticed with self-proclaimed optimists, and the people who are doing the work because a lot of how they're expressing their optimism is, in my view, bullshit.
It doesn't actually correspond to reality. and yes, you have to imagine the future. And anyone go, who goes to Steve Jobs? I sort of tune out a little bit, to be honest with you, cuz the guy was a psychopath there's a generation of people who have lionized him and have not like taken like the cautionary tales of the fact that he was a psychopath.
and so I don't think many people are gonna become Steve Jobs. Like it's just not a reality. but yeah, like I recognize, like optimism. I think the, the part that I don't like about it is that it's, it's often used as cover for things like toxic positivity and hypocrisy,
[00:21:45] Troy: I'm trying to figure out, you see where I would disagree with that is I think that that a kind of blind optimism that we are going to go to Mars or we're going to, land a rocket or whatever, or, change the automotive industry. Those are just three sort of musk skiing examples or, or people that were going to fundamentally reshape the PC industry or whatever the vision is.
Change. For example, Alex's friend Brian, I always found this remarkable that on some level you could read the investor presentation for Airbnb and think, well, we already have a booking engine for cottage. like for like weekend getaways, but Aaron, but like Brian and team, dared to kind of look at it so broadly and so ambitiously that it was about fundamentally changing the supply and the demand side of something to create a new category.
And I, and I just have always, and I, I quite frankly, I don't think I'm one of these people that can literally believe in a vision so profoundly and deeply and passionately that they, they create a space where other people do things that they, they didn't think they could do, and they start to fill it in, in ways that are really unexpected.
And yes, along the way there's carnage, right? There's people that can't, can't keep up with it, or, there may be, wild Decisions that have real, you know, second order consequences. You hired too many people or you made the wrong bet in the pursuit of that vision and it really had human costs.
But no, but the, the, there is a type of person and I, I'd love to hear from Alex on this before you attack me on it, Brian.
That, but, but like that do this crazy thing that's just kind of blind faith.
[00:23:33] Brian: Great man
Theory
[00:23:34] Troy: It's not a great.
[00:23:35] Brian: that is,
[00:23:35] Alex: I think it's different when you're, when you're looking at it from the outside, Brian is definitely, definitely somebody that's, that you could define as optimistic and resilient. and I think it's, it's, it's that that allows him to kind of push forward like this.
And as somebody who's worked for somebody like that, it creates a space where you're like, I don't know. You can see into the future just a little bit further and you want to, and you push yourself a little bit more to think about things differently. And I can tell you it's very different to work for somebody like that than for a CEO that's a pragmatist that looks at the data, that understands the realities of working in this world.
And then, I think you can't have as much impact. that doesn't mean, that there isn't a huge cost to. People like that failing, right? I mean, I'm sure there's a lot of people who are optimistic and resilient who didn't manage to find a product market fit.
[00:24:21] Brian: so lemme ask you this on the product side. So how do you translate that though into like the product? Because a lot of this is like, it's messaging, right? It's it's words versus deeds. And so like where it translates into the product I think is, is interesting, right? Because like Airbnb has like gotten a lot of shit for the cleaning fees for example, right?
I wonder like how do you view. Optimism, like within products, because Apple, for instance, yes, the marketing is still about the optimist, the crazy ones and whatever, Apple is also, in my view, a deeply cynical company right now. If you look at what they're, how they're approaching, I didn't really like how the Iab B guy like, you know, framed it.
But like Apple is taking a very cynical approach to, to quote unquote protecting privacy. So I'm just interested in how that kind of optimism, particularly when these companies scale, gets translated to the product level from the
outside.
[00:25:17] Alex: yeah, and no, no, no. Company is perfect and, not everything works, but I think optimism, uh, when, when I worked at Airbnb at least, was baked into the process. I don't know if you've ever heard Brian, Brian Cheskys 11 star or 10 star Experie. Idea. And we use that all the time. We were thinking of a new feature and we say, okay, well let's think about what the five star experience is.
You know, what is the kind of our model of what we'd be proud to launch? And then we would go, okay, what's the six star, seven star, eight star, nine star, 10 star experience? And you would go completely out there, right? And it would create, you know, imagine you walked in and, and you had food on the table and it was your favorite meal and whatever, right?
U unrealistic things. But what allow us to create was a place to kind of think about things, a little bit unconstrained so that we could go back and the five star experience would feel possible. Does it make sense? Because if you start there, you might end up at a four star experience.
And I think that type of stuff can really work. I would, recommend it, but. I think it can be abused by people who are very good at it, but have ill intentions. And I also think that it can be, uh, disaster by people who think they have the capabilities and, and can't, can't pull it off.
Right. and so I don't know what the WeWork guy or what, FTX guy ended up being. I don't know if, if there was intent behind that or they were so optimistic they built a world around them that started collapsing and then, you know, they kind of scrambled out of it. But, I think it can be, it's, it's a very powerful type of energy in the company.
[00:26:48] Brian: Oh, I have no doubt. I, I, as I was saying, like I think it's just cover that's used by people who are actually very cynical. I think there are a lot of people who are masquerading as optimists. Not a
[00:26:57] Alex: I
I, I don't know, man, my, all my, all my less optimistic friends say like, you're not optimist, you're just cynical. And I'm like, no, I'm truly optimistic, . It's just like, I'm generally a happy. I mean, I don't sound like it all the time, but I
am. It's
[00:27:11] Brian: you're optimist,
[00:27:12] Alex: you. but maybe that's why, you know, product people and, the founders and, journalists, journalists is, are more pragmatic because that's what the rule requires.
Right.
[00:27:22] Brian: Oh, for sure.
[00:27:24] Alex: And also, I'm gonna say, I think the problem is it's maybe not pessimism, but it's negativism, if that's a word.
Right. And negativism sells and media is full of it. Right.
[00:27:36] Brian: Yeah. Yeah. I think that is the flaw of media. It's actually the hardest part of. . You know, I think the, I don't know if it's a trend or something, but like anything of like journalists, like going off on their own and creating their own businesses, the hardest part is a core feature of the job is being skeptical to the point of being negative.
And I think where, where the news industry in particular, struggles is with this, because, you know, some of it is just, it's just structural to some degree. I mean, you're, you're literally taught, if you make the mistake of going to journalism school, you know, your mother tells you you love, you better check it out.
You know, I mean, that's like the haha first lesson. Now, if that's what's taught to you from Day one, , that has like an impact and it, and ends up working for you in your profession because people are constantly lying to you and bullshitting you and trying to use you for other purposes, but it really works against you when you, sometimes, when you step out into.
Into other roles. I don't think there's one way to do anything in life, but it's, it's definitely a challenge from the typical, you know, overly to my view, like over optimistic view that is often associated with the quote unquote entrepreneurial class Anyway, that was my statement. Troy, what do you think? I mean, does, does media need more optimism right now? I mean, because like, you know, there's, you know, all these layoffs and there is a perpetual feeling, I feel like, of negativism, if not pessimism and cynicism about the prospects of
[00:29:16] Troy: Yeah, it, it, it would benefit from a dose of optimism, but I'm not worried about it. And I'm not worried about it because the magnetic pull of media is ever present. somebody always wants to make content for somebody else. Somebody always wants the influence of being behind a media entity. there's, there's always going to be incentives for people to make things that are viewed and shared and read and appreciated by others.
So, so media and there's a lot of great case. While there is tremendous, You know, difficulty in parts of, you know, across the media spectrum. There's amazing examples where one ought to be incredibly positive about it. It's how it's empowered, unlikely individuals to do incredible things. Like what's the name of that woman in Missouri, Jenny Doen, that started the Missouri Star Quilt Company right on YouTube just kind of before the pandemic.
She has 40 million in revenue and in like 850,000 followers on, on YouTube. And it's this, this incredible case study where people like the Gaines is in an unlikely town in wherever they are in, where are they in Alabama or something that have created, you know, a massive, massive media empire on the back of their view of lifestyle.
So there's, you know, there's all kinds of people that are doing incredible things in media. And, and no, there's never a shortage of someone who, who wants to step up and try it again. So the example we shared earlier, Brian was this company this week called the News Movement. And so what is the news movement?
It's a company that does, you know, kind of Gen z led vertical video for I presume TikTok reels, YouTube shorts. It's, I think it's, their office is somewhere in Europe, maybe it's in London. they bought the remnants of John Patel's company, the recount. And, they are, they're taking a swing at somebody.
Something that people, whether it was, you know, now this news or you know, others. What was the name of that company that sold actually seemingly to candle for like, I think a hundred million outta Los Angeles, that, that did the kind of positivity video thing. what's the
name of that company? Yeah.
Att Tn, yes. Attention. Yeah. so it, it's another swing at, you know, making. News content for a new generation on the, their preferred platforms, and someone's gonna run at it and it's, you know, you laugh a little bit, Brian,
[00:31:41] Alex: No, I'm laughing cuz I, I wanted, I wanted to pi I I see what you're doing here because like I've painted you as like the, the grumpy guy and now you're trying to paint me as the pessimist. I get it. This is good. But, even that's a cynical view. Brian, you've just proven a
[00:31:56] Brian: See
it's like when I was calling Troy gre grumpy.
[00:31:59] Troy: Hey, breaking news, Brian. I don't have to do it. You do it and the audience
[00:32:05] Brian: Yeah. Touche. Same about the Grum,
[00:32:07] Troy: Yeah. I don't know where this grum, this things comes from. Like, I'm like a soft, cuddly, center leaning,
[00:32:13] Brian: Center leading. What is that?
[00:32:15] Troy: By the way, on, on, on. You know, there's a lot of reasons that you can look around in media and other places, and I hate to take the moderator role here, which I'm not trying to do.
But a couple things did hit my, my feed, like this one, this one. I wonder what you guys thought of this in, you know, one of the great, uh, bastions of progressive drug policy in the world, British Columbia, Canada, they've now, as of today have, or yesterday started experiment. They're, they basically have new thinking on incarceration where they have a three year decriminalization trial that began today, yesterday, the first region in the country to change the way it polices people use hard drugs.
So if they get, if they catch you with two and a half grams of cocaine or opioids, or meta, uh, or, or meth rather, you're not, you can keep it and you're not going to jail.
[00:33:04] Brian: Okay.
[00:33:04] Troy: And it's just never, it's never been done.
[00:33:06] Brian: is that optimism? That sounds just like
a weird, weird
[00:33:11] Troy: th Well, I actually don't think it's weird. I think it's a great step forward, and as an optimist, I would say it's about time that we started not throwing people in jail for having cocaine in their pocket.
Now, that isn't to say, by the way, that they won't go after people that are trafficking drugs, but you know, it's, and plus, it's, it's an experiment. Even optimism. Brian, I got another one for you. What about this? I want to hear your reaction to this one.
What about the,
[00:33:36] Brian: back on that
[00:33:36] Troy: okay, the
rebranding of the rebranding of Jesus.
[00:33:39] Brian: should you Oh, like that. He's like your friend. And like I've seen some of
those commercials during, in football.
[00:33:44] Alex: Yeah, I get a lot of those ads on Twitter now.
[00:33:47] Troy: So Jesus now gets us, he's trying to heal that which divides the right and the left is
[00:33:53] Brian: Yeah. Uh, so I would say this as someone who, who went to Catholic school for many, many years, I mean, Jesus was an optimist, but he was like very much a realist, right? And the, the, the optimism that. Jesus practice is very different than the kind of like optimism that I end up like sort of being turned off from.
because a lot of the optimism that I get turned off from is, is the blind optimism that like, it literally doesn't correspond to like reality. to some degree. And like usually it's used that anyone who objects with by the way the sky is blue Or maybe we just like have a hypothesis and we test it out like, your drug policy.
I'm like, yeah, sure. Why don't we test it out? But the problem is like, it becomes ideological and like people just aren't like open-minded enough. So I, yeah, I mean, I agree. I'm like always conflicted on like optimism. probably just based on profession
[00:34:48] Alex: your take. Seems to often be. Yeah, it's great, but people are gonna fuck it up.
[00:34:52] Brian: with, with what?
[00:34:53] Alex: I mean, with, with anything, with
[00:34:55] Troy: No carry on. Carry on. Alex, keep, keep, keep uh, up the healthy sort of questioning of Brian
[00:35:01] Alex: I'm not putting you, as a stand-in for all of media. But you know,
this, Jesus is great, it was misused by people. fine. entrepreneurs are great, but you know, they end up, screwing over people because humans cannot be trusted.
Is there like maybe a little pessimism around, like people are gonna step in and mess it all up? Optimism. Like, is there a distrust? Is this about like, you know, if your
mom tells you she loves you, you should, you should ask again. because it's not cynicism, it's distrust.
[00:35:28] Brian: thank you. Thank you. It is not cynicism. That's where I, I find that pejorative and unhelpful,
uh,
designation. Um,
[00:35:36] Alex: empty.
[00:35:37] Brian: yes. I completely, I will cop to that, and I will agree to, to that. I'm Remi I would always like, uh, go back to, to what Joseph Stalin once said. at Yalta, Churchill said that the agreement over like Poland, like not being under anyone's control, had to be as, as pure, as like Caesar's wife and like , Stalin and Stalin said, okay, but I've heard she's not without her own sins,
[00:35:59] Alex: But, but I wonder, I wonder if that's something, there's something interesting, there, uh, around trust and optimism. Because even when, when we were talking about generationally, you know, most, most generations look at the next generation, it's kind of a disaster. And I think it's about distrust, distrust between age groups, between people.
And when you can't trust that people are gonna be
[00:36:22] Brian: Yeah.
[00:36:23] Alex: then you can't be optimistic.
[00:36:25] Brian: Yes, I would agree with that. And I would also say like, that's where I found the fine line with management, leadership, whatever you wanna call it, like with optimism in that credibility and trust is incredibly important. And to me, like you have to optimize this something. And I always wanted to and want to optimize the credibility and trust.
and to me, like you lose credibility and trust when you bullshit people. And like, it, it, I think I, I celebrate optimism, whatever, but not blindly. And I think a real flaw of an overly optimistic leadership. Strategy or, or approach is that you lose credibility with the, the people in the cubicles at the end of the day.
As you know,
Troy, I like to be a tribune of the
people on this
podcast.
[00:37:12] Troy: the view
from the cubicle.
[00:37:14] Brian: That's gonna be my spinoff podcast. You could have the good product. I'll have the
V from the,
[00:37:17] Alex: the, problem right now is that it's all open, plan offices and nobody can get work done, which is why
[00:37:22] Brian: We're going back to cubicles. I think that's, you know, just like LinkedIn has emerged as the last great social platform and the only great social platform. So too does all this return to office stuff. We're just gonna end up like compromising them with cubicle
[00:37:35] Alex: Yeah. We're all gonna be wa looking at LinkedIn while sitting in our offices
[00:37:39] Brian: in our cubicles. It's gonna be
[00:37:41] Troy: You know, the one thing I'm not super optimistic about is home affordability. So I think that's kind of a drag, because I think having a home is kind of important to young people and to people broadly. It was certainly my strategy from when I was a young person. it's really, really hard to buy, uh, real estate in particular, compounding effect of high price, house values combined with interest rates and, pushing a value of rentals and making, just like having a decent place hard.
So I'm kind of not super positive about that. The, the other one is, the, I wonder if we're optimistic about Twitter. I, I, I thought we have to get to that at some point, because
now
No, just, it, it's, it's in, it's interesting, it's interesting.
So, so Mosque wants to have people send money to each other. Use, there's a couple hundred million accounts, right? So if I could use that to send money to people, you know, whether it was feed or crypto or whatever. and I tied my savings or my, my debit card to my, uh, to, to my Twitter account. , is that gonna help Twitter be something new?
is that a
smart, optimistic move?
[00:38:43] Alex: would it solve something that you. currently can't do, would it give you a solution? I mean, that's the, that's the issue to me. Fine. But
[00:38:49] Brian: Troy, if you wanna send me 50 bucks and I encourage you to send me 50 bucks, like you can send it to me through PayPal,
you can send it to me, Venmo, you could do it through Zelle. , you could give me like two twenties and a 10. Remember that? Like Saturday night Live change commercial like
[00:39:05] Troy: Right? But I'm already on Twitter and I maybe I know you, maybe I only barely know you and I can li literally send you a message and add money to it. Or I can, I can donate money to a account that I wanna support. it's there. People are logging on all the time. It's a matter of can you remove the friction enough that it's more convenient than logging onto a separate application.
[00:39:25] Alex: I, I don't know. I think that 90% of the people you're gonna be sending money to is in some form of text message Apple Pay, or they already have Venmo or, know, speaking about an optimist. This is not a Mars mission, right?
this is like, I don't know if you get the best people in the world to come and work for you and say, yeah, we'll build another, wallet and transfer system that already exists. So for me, I think, when you can get people excited about a vision, that's when you can get great people, and I don't know if this is an exciting vision, he might do.
It might make some money, you know, is it going to be worth 44 billion? I don't think so. do you think, Trey?
[00:40:03] Troy: I think it comes down to. A really beautifully crafted experience and maybe creating, essentially some incentives in the form of things that you can do with your money on Twitter that you couldn't do elsewhere, that's gonna get you into the mode of using it to transfer, money from one place to another.
So, I, I, I don't think it's impossible. I think you might have said like, why do I need to use Zelle when I could write you a check or, there's always shifts in behavior that surprise you. So I, I, I'm not sure. I think if
[00:40:35] Alex: I mean, I don't see the friction. I actually don't see the friction
because if checks suck like a Apple pay already does it. I already swipe my
[00:40:42] Troy: Why don't we, I I, I used to, when I, when that feature came out, I used to send dollars to my friends all the time by text cuz I thought it was funny. and, and, but I never used that. I can do that on, on an apple right now. Right. I could send you, I'll send you five bucks right now
by text.
[00:40:57] Brian: the idea of like, and we always fall into this trap of the optimism of thinking that things that like work in particular Asian markets will work, particularly in the US market, are also just like US and Europe and like, I don't think, I don't think super apps, I don't think the super app model is gonna work here.
And I don't like, just because it exists in China, it does for like a
bunch of different
[00:41:19] Alex: and let's be very clear, neither Apple nor any of o nor Google, let's say, are particularly incentivized to love the super app model because they want their os to be the super. So I don't, I don't know if this is going anywhere and I don't, and also like at this stage, like the amount of trust we are speaking about trust again, that you need to put into, you know, Elon Musk's Twitter to put your money in there.
I don't know. They got a way, they got ways to go. Apple is flawed, but I trust it with my money,
[00:41:50] Troy: Right. So related to that, there's another announcement this week that I have not had the opportunity to try out, which is the artifact launch from Systrom, the founder and creator of Instagram. Have you guys read about that or should we
[00:42:05] Brian: Yeah,
[00:42:06] Troy: talk about
it?
[00:42:07] Alex: yeah, yeah.
[00:42:07] Brian: yeah. I shared that with you.
[00:42:09] Troy: Oh, you did. It's a, my understanding is it's a way of navigating and discovering text-based content. with a kind of TikTok vibe. So you can swipe, swipe, swipe, you can find things that are interested, then it'll, then it'll sort of cross sell other content to you using an algorithm.
[00:42:26] Brian: Yeah,
so this is actually good cuz I'll just like jump in real quick before we get to the thing cuz like when that came out I saw like one of the media operator types, it's like never work. It's like, I'm like, what? What? Like, I'm would like, I mean this is the sort of like the opposite of optimism. I'm just like the reflexive dismissal of, of things.
I think that is something that
[00:42:49] Troy: That's why I was bringing it up.
[00:42:51] Brian: like why not? Like, I mean, let's just give it a try. Like, this is fine. I'm interested to see it. I don't have an opinion of it until I've experienced the product though, because I can see a need for that. There's a clear need to un to figure out like new formats for delivery of news that we just haven't gotten yet.
Yes, the track record is not great, but there's a need.
[00:43:13] Troy: The track record is horrible to be clear,
[00:43:16] Brian: Yeah.
It's like micro payments. Do I assume someone at some point is gonna figure out a way that we are going to have uh, a sustainable method of buying individual pieces of content? Yes. Have like a hundred people tried and failed. Yes.
So you definitely have to be an
[00:43:33] Troy: the, economics of it are really challenging as Flipboard discovered.
[00:43:36] Brian: Yeah.
[00:43:37] Alex: Yeah. And I also don't know if culturally this is how people consume that type of content because, you know, they hop around, they, they read parts of it, you know, it's not like downloading a movie or, or paying for a TV show. So I think, I think there needs to be a cultural shift as well.
It's not just a technology solution. I'm excited about somebody trying something. I mean, as you know, we've been working in that space for a while and we've tried lots of different ways to get this to work. I think one of the things that might, might slow them down is because of that history of having made Instagram, people are going to, gauge the success of this thing compared to Instagram numbers.
And maybe it doesn't need to reach that scale, you know? Does that make sense?
[00:44:18] Brian: Yeah. But like, I mean, does that matter?
[00:44:21] Alex: I think it matters. I think it's matters to see, you know, like what the story is that gets created around it. You know, how people talk about a product as being successful or not, you know?
[00:44:31] Brian: But wouldn't that be debilitating? I mean, like, talk about good problems to have, but like you, you started Instagram and literally your chances of creating anything at the scale of Instagram again are like pretty much impossible. So if you're just not gonna, I mean, look, one option is just do the VC route or whatever and you know, do that because you're never gonna create something as big.
But I kind of appreciate people who go back and take another swing at something. And even if it has like a much higher. You know, less likelihood of being a breakout success, you know, continue to do that. I think that's kind of cool.
I'm trying to, I'm trying to claw back some optimism.
[00:45:08] Alex: Yeah. And I think it's like the, uh, the old rocker. Problem. You can go watch a, a band that used to be, you know, selling out 60,000 seat concerts, right? And then you see them at a bar, right? 20 years later. And sometimes you'll see them just loving it. And sometimes you'll see bands that just look defeated.
And the people who love it, the people who love it, are usually the people who just love making music. And if these guys really love making shit, then they'll be fine,
[00:45:36] Brian: Yeah. That's why
[00:45:37] Troy: I never wanted to. I never wanted to be the aging person at Old Rockstar shows. I'm going to one now. I just got invited to Pasadena
to go see. No, I'm not. I'm not. I want to go see what the kids are listening to. I'm going to Pasadena to see modern English Iggy Paw,
[00:45:56] Brian: Wait, you
wait. You give me
shit for not dressing. You give me shit for not dressing age appropriate and you're going to like Gen Z, like
[00:46:06] Alex: Sure man. What I don't get, I don't get this whole thing of like, you're only meant to enjoy what's, what's there for your generation. It's, it sucks, man. I think culture is way too interesting to not participate in it.
[00:46:18] Brian: I actually take that back cuz I agree cuz one of the things I like about Europe and actually New York City to a degree is like, you have like bars and restaurants with like all generations involved. Like if you go to like Madrid or something like this, you're at like dinner at like 10:00 PM and like there's everyone from like 85 year olds to like 10 year old kids eating weirdly late and stuff like this.
Where I feel like a lot of times I think it might be a particularly American thing to sort of like pigeonhole things a little bit, like based on like generation.
[00:46:48] Alex: We were all young, we were all gonna be old. Let's just, you know, enjoy this time. I, uh, I think it's great.
[00:46:54] Troy: Do you want to speak about anything that's making you optimistic? episode went all over the place.
[00:47:00] Brian: Really, I thought it was good
[00:47:01] Alex: No, no, in a good way.
[00:47:02] Troy: Okay. What I would like, I think there's two, there's lots of reasons to be optimistic on, you know, from health and climate tech and, and,
[00:47:12] Brian: but gimme something non-obvious, Troy, that you're optimistic about. don't, please don't be obvious, like do something that like a lot of people are not optimistic about, but you are actually optimistic about
[00:47:24] Troy: I don't know, solar powered reverse osmosis desalination. I'm optimistic about that. You know, the
lakes are drying up. 40% of the world lives, you know, close to the coasts. our ability to turn saltwater into drinkable freshwater is an important thing that we've not been able to do because of the cost of energy and, I think it could change the world for the better.
So, I mean, that's just one example. There's many of them.
[00:47:49] Alex: Climate tech in general. I think we're seeing a lot of, you know, solutions coming, coming out,
[00:47:54] Troy: I I don't know whether this is a good thing or a bad thing, Alex, but there was a paper outta Harvard last week that shows they've made progress on identifying the causes of aging and the genetic mechanics of that. that has proven results in a study of mice that may change not, you know, might not extend wildly extend our lifespan, but certainly make the years that we live here more pleasurable, and help us live more vibrantly late in life.
I'm optimistic about that. I'm optimistic about AI and how it can, it's gonna be extremely bumpy, but how it can like, open up new frontiers in how we live on this world and, you know, and what, what people do with their time and how creative we can be. I'm optimistic about that. yeah, I just, but I, I think to wrap the episode and, uh, Brian, you're, you're, you're good
at it.
[00:48:44] Brian: get to weigh in.
[00:48:45] Troy: Yeah. I thought you
[00:48:46] Brian: It's funny, what, what I think is funny is that you just go to tech, like, it's just tech.I think it's funny in our time in that like everyone goes to tech, cuz we've, I think we've talked about it in the, like one of the early episodes, like when we imagine the future.
Like many of the advances that we have now versus like 19 whatever, 60, whenever the Jetsons like, have not been technological advances. A lot of the advances we've had have been societal advances in how we've, you know, viewed things differently and viewed like the equality of different people. Like, you know, we've recognized that, but we never imagined those kind of advances.
We always just fall to technology when, and, it's just an interesting phenomenon. Just a
note.
[00:49:30] Troy: Well, the most watched television show of the past week was a gay love story.
[00:49:34] Brian: Yeah. That would've been unheard of. I remember it was a big deal when 30 something had two dudes kiss on it and like the eighties, like it was like a, some kind of like weird scandal or something.
[00:49:43] Alex: Yeah. That progress has been happening for a while. I'm gonna put one out that is a cultural,
[00:49:47] Brian: why we always go to tech, because tech, it seems like an advance that's quote unquote overnight, and we don't
[00:49:52] Alex: well, Brian, it's also what we.
[00:49:54] Brian: over time.
[00:49:55] Alex: It's also what we know about and what we talk about in, in this podcast. And
there's
nothing
[00:50:00] Brian: Desalination.
[00:50:01] Alex: and there's nothing to be, there's nothing to be optimistic.
[00:50:05] Brian: I'm sorry.
I, my optimism is off with that.
[00:50:09] Troy: we could reorder it.
[00:50:10] Alex: it's, it's natural for us to go towards tech and, uh, because we talk about tech and media on this podcast, and there's nothing to be optimistic about media. But if we wanna talk about how we, how things are changing, I wonder, I'm optimistic about, The strong man, phenomena, you know, kind of petering off a little bit, right?
Like strong men and kind of hero worship. and I do think Elon was part of that, and I think, the, the wars and, and I think that could be a good thing to happen because strong men are never good news. So Gen Z, very optimistic.
[00:50:43] Brian: I'm optimistic. about them too. Uh, I'm optimistic about America. I think, uh, everyone always writes off like the United States, like, and, and very challenged and like more competition than ever, but, The United States is actually incredibly well positioned right now in many different areas. And a lot of the, the, the places that were thought to be, you know, stronger, China is going into demographic decline.
they're chaotic. Exit from Covid, you know, is kind of proven that like a lot of the marketing that the CCP did was just that. It was marketing. and if you look at what's going on in Europe and with the Chips Act and, uh, the climate bill, the US is gonna out-compete Europe. It has already been out-competing Europe.
And, and you look at the immigration figures, we're still attracting tons of people to this country. And the biggest battle is going to be can you continue to grow your country? You either are gonna be a super small country, or if you're gonna op, operate in the big leagues, you're gonna have to. Attract a lot of people.
You see Germany changing their approach to immigration too, late Japan. It's, it's a cultural, like they've been in decline forever because they can't, they don't produce enough people and they don't have people who move there. I don't think China's gonna become an immigration nation. So very optimistic about the United States
[00:52:04] Troy: I think that's well said. can we switch to reverse osmosis desalination,
[00:52:09] Brian: All right. On that note, we'll be back next week with the
[00:52:11] Troy: No, no, no. What are you talking about? W we gotta do good product.
[00:52:15] Brian: Oh shit. It's time for good product. Troy, what kind of like, uh, desalination product have you come across this week?
[00:52:25] Troy: well, this one's a little more basic and, and what, what I thought I would do is, get you guys to guess what I picked this week as a good product and I'll read a few of them. Alex, do I have your attention?
[00:52:36] Alex: shit. You do have, uh, my attention.
[00:52:38] Troy: America.
[00:52:40] Brian: LinkedIn.
[00:52:41] Troy: I'll give you a few, uh, and then you can tell me what, what I'm, what I've selected America.
I love you, but you are freaking me. Dick Cheney shoots his friends. are you following Jesus this closely? I'm so gay. I can't even drive straight.
[00:52:55] Brian: Bumper stickers that you saw.
[00:52:57] Troy: That's it. Bumper stickers. And so here's the rational. Like here's, here's my, my rationale. So kind of all cars look the same now, right? They all look like some smashed up SUV V thing, and which leaves us, I think, fewer cues to learn much about the owner in the car next to us, which is kind of fun to do if you're driving in your board and I want to know more.
And so I think that that bumper stickers are kind of out style, out of fashion. And I was driving on the, on the highway the other day and I was like, nobody's got bumper stickers anymore except for like dumb ones like, you know, college stickers or maybe the odd sports team affiliation. And I love like stuff like imagine World Peas.
or like, you know, gas grass or ass, no one drives for free. you know, even the dumb ones, I noticed one, I've got a perfect body, but it's in the trunk and beginning the smell. Um, ,you know, I even like the odd, my kid is an honors student at Blank Blank High School. Those are good. so I, I don't know, I I, I kind of missed them.
I, I, I saw one that said I never thought I would Ms. Nixon, which I think was
[00:54:07] Brian: Well, the political ones, you know, there's a lot of political ones still around.
[00:54:12] Alex: if you miss them, in Northern California right now, uh, where I live, you'll see a lot of bumper stickers that, you know, proclaim love for every religion, save the planet, save the trees, saved, theran, yours, crystals.
[00:54:27] Brian: you this. Uh, uh, Alex, as the resident European, this seems like an Amer, like bumper stickers seem like a p like a pretty American product.
[00:54:35] Alex: Yes and no. I think, uh, Europe, I mean, first of all, in Europe we used to have these like oval stickers that
[00:54:41] Brian: Yeah. My parents brought us back one from Belgium, like they
had it on their car in like
suburban Philadelphia.
[00:54:49] Alex: those were cool. so, uh,
yeah, I mean, not like this,
[00:54:53] Troy: Uh, Alex.
[00:54:55] Alex: no. I only have one that lets me, uh, use the h o V lane because I ride an
electric vehicle.
[00:55:01] Troy: Right.
[00:55:01] Alex: I'm not putting, I mean, Melissa, Melissa actually, my wife, we, uh, were stuck behind this car with a lot of bumper cars and, and I wasn't saying anything and she goes like, oh, you probably hate this, because I was just like staring at all these badly designed logos and p Paris, France and, and so it was just a lot of, uh, input for me and my, uh, my ADHD was kicking in,
but, you know, I like it.
Express yourself, man.
[00:55:26] Troy: Yeah. All right. Well, I mean, I, I think that was probably a bit of a surprise is a good product. I hope you guys, uh,
[00:55:32] Brian: Yeah, I, I would say this, I, I'd like the bumper stickers that express an element of like someone's personality that is, is unusual. So those are the ones I like. I don't like the braggy ones or the ones that are trying to convey some sort of status thing, you know, like where they vacation or something like that,
And I don't mean like Virginia's for lovers. I think we had that one as a kid. That was a classic bumper sticker, by the way. and a great marketing campaign. but I mean, like, oh, we're gonna make sure you know that we have the Martha's Vineyard like sticker.
I just find that stuff, but maybe I'm just the pessimist.
[00:56:04] Troy: Well, if think if the episode reveals anything, it may reveal that.
[00:56:08] Brian: I don't think so,
[00:56:10] Brian: Thanks so much for listening, and please do, remember to leave us a rating and review helps people find this podcast and, share it with friends, family, loved ones, colleagues.
We'll be back next week with a new episode.
[00:56:20] Troy: I thought that, you're calling me out on Des It is so funny.
[00:56:25] Brian: the way you said it too, I'm sorry. I tried not to cuz I'm sensitive to this idea that I bully Troy, which is the most ridiculous,thing in the world. you said it in such like a desalination
[00:56:37] Troy:


PVA S1E22
PVA S1E22
[00:00:00] Troy: are you guys looking forward to this episode? Cuz we're gonna talk about Uniqueness
[00:00:04] Brian: you call it uniqueness, I call it differentiation, but whatever. I don't know if there's a difference. let's just get into it cuz I gotta, as they say in the corporate world, a hard stop.
[00:00:11] Troy: What's your favorite Corporate aphorism.
[00:00:13] Brian: I used to like when people would say that they needed to socialize something,
[00:00:16] Alex: Yeah, that's always been a weird one.
[00:00:18] Troy: What about at
the end of the day?
[00:00:19] Brian: if someone says, at the end of the day, we just gotta think outside the box, you better run.
[00:00:24] Alex: Let's double click on that. Troy, what do you mean
[00:00:26] Troy: Brilliant.
[00:00:27] Intro
[00:00:49] Brian: Welcome to People versus Algorithms, a show about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Marcy. I write the Rebooting Newsletter. I'm also the host of a podcast called The Rebooting Show, where every week I talk to media executives who are building sustainable media businesses. And each week I'm joined on this podcast by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young, writer of the People Versus Algorithms Newsletter.
And Alex Schleifer, former head of Design at Airbnb, and founder of Universal Entities. , the internet by its nature is made for niches with the sheer number of choices. Placing a premium on differentiation to stand out the way to stand out in a sea of content would seem, I mean, it's obvious right to be uniqueness.
Yet the side effect of this sea of content was the need, or maybe it was the opportunity to apply technology to make sense of it all. I mean, after. , AOL and Yahoo could not succeed with a librarian approach. It took algorithmic search thanks to Google, which emerged from the original search wars victorious, and Facebook then took that to another level with its algorithmic, sorting mechanism in which it used the connections that we had to each other in order to surface content that we would find Or maybe it's just interesting and. , the act of making content became not a way to stand out necessarily to other human beings, but to conform to the needs of these algorithms. it's in the title of this podcast, you know, this is the, the week of the Super Bowl, and I'm, I'm hoping that the Eagles do prevail on Sunday, and I think it's telling, on this week to remember back to the original, algorithmic content creation.
and that's when everyone followed the lead of the Huffington Post and shining up those SEO keywords, stuffed articles. And I used. Loosely to answer the burning question of just what time does the Super Bowl start? And, and we've seen this time and again, as opportunities the tech provides, present themselves, they can get taken away again because just yesterday Microsoft showed off a new AI powered version of its Bing search engine, has Google, ready its own response.
Bard and we're seemingly on the cusp of a new ear of digital technology where algorithms take the the next step and begin to not just sort the content, but to make it themselves. Now, there are those who say and point to Google's answer box and say, there's nothing new here. But I think these people are mostly putting up front because deep down and privately, They know that this technology is going to continue to advance and have a deep impact on publishing strategies that were in large part built around filling search engines with very similar content and competing to quote unquote, win distribution by gaining the favor of these algorithms.
Troy, Alex and I discussed differentiation or uniqueness, if you must, and what it means in the algorithmic age, as we move into this new territory. As always, please do send in your. My email is b morrisy the rebooting.com. Also, please share this podcast with anyone you believe would like it.
Troy, what is your take on this? is differentiation still even possible in media?
[00:03:34] Troy: of course, of course it is. Without differentiation, you have nothing. Without uniqueness, you have nothing. And it's more important because you might have been more protected if your distribution was so powerful that you could. relatively speaking undifferentiated. But we live in a world of, I guess you could call it commoditized distribution.
So you better have a product that is highly differentiated. I think it's never been more important. And I think it also intersects with what you always talk about, which is, ultimately something that's deeply human is, that doesn't give it, exclusive rights to be differentiated, but something that emerges in a way that is unique from a human makes it different.
But it still has to be all the other things to be valuable, right?to be differentiated, you still have to be, useful to someone and repeatable. Ideally it's extendable. and recognizable? I think so. All of those things. I just think it's,the number one rule in media is that, Steve Schwartz, the c e o of Hearst, who's a very clear thinking person, used to call it uniqueness.
And I always liked that term.
[00:04:44] Brian: But at the same time, the entire currents of the business work against that, right? when you were at Hearst, you had centralized news desks or I forget what you called them, right? and the need for efficiency in the business, a lot of times runs against differentiation, differentiation, uniqueness, whatever you wanna call it.
that, that's not very efficient. that involves a lot of friction. why should various people be covering the same topic or writing about the same thing? Let's just be super efficient about it. We can create it once, tweak it a little bit, and spread it across a bunch of different, publications.
we've all been through it. I can remember when I was at Adweek, like decade ago, more than a decade ago, we had this centralized news hub and they were like, whoa, we're just gonna create the, the stuff centrally and then we'll just spit it out. why don't you just have one publication at that point?
[00:05:32] Alex: isn't
it, the case that, 10, 20, 30 years ago, differentiation was given to those that had distribution access to resources and scale, right? just because you had distribution, you would be unique in the fact that you could distribute the products, so you could have optimized around that, right?
Just because you had more access to resources. You could create movies, music, articles that nobody else could, right? Because you had just money to do it. And so you would put out a differentiated product out there. But all of these things have gone away. So therefore optimizing around scale or distribution isn't as, unique today, or it isn't as effective today.
Isn't that the case?
[00:06:13] Brian: but isn't it that, that in order to get distribution, your incentives are actually to be very similar to what everyone else is doing. the world doesn't need another recap of, whatever the HIT TV show is or whatever the successor of the Kardashian is, as far as what's getting search traffic.
But in order to game the algorithmic systems, you end up having to do what everyone else is doing. I mean, we, we see this all the time. I saw Kyle Chaka who he should come on. Kyle, if you're listening, you should call on this podcast sometime.
[00:06:44] Troy: He's smart. I think he works with, I meant his, I must be a colleague of his Daisy who is together. They've in endeavored to start that, publication. Dirt.
[00:06:53] Brian: Dirt. We should also check it out. Kyle also writes for the New Yorker and, and he's very attuned with digital culture and this is what he said. He said, I'll say it, I'll say again what I will doubtlessly be saying A million times in the coming years, algorithmic feeds have pushed content creators to conform to the acceptable aesthetic and cultural average AI generation will just automatically produce that average from the start, and the average will entrench itself much faster because more content generation is happening not just from quote unquote creators, but for many random user who is probably less interesting or innovative even than an algorithmically popular.
Average garbage forever is the single commandment of 21st century culture . You could either realize this dow and adapt your consumption habits, to make more direct cultural connections or figure it out in two years when it's already too late and everything sucks even more.
Kyle did not get the, the, the optimism
memo
[00:07:52] Alex: don't like that. Troy, I want to hear what you wanna say about this, but I
[00:07:55] Troy: well, I had an, I have an anecdote about it and it relates to AI and there's a broader story there. I think that's pretty pessimistic. I think that first thing I would say is I always thought about the content creation machine as the things we had to do to clear the way the things we had to do for distribution.
And that might've included just being fast, Brian. Like whether that was through a central news desk or, the creation in the magazine World News, you know, and certainly the pace that the internet required us to create, it wasn't a thing. So that was all new muscle, but there was stuff we had to do to feed Google and stuff we had to do to feed social and all that.
And then there was meant to be the stuff that, that really dimensionalize the brand and differentiated you. And I think you kind of always had to, to do both because, there was a recognition, certainly from my point of view at some point that. Content strategy, equal distribution. So there were things you just had to do to fill the pipes up.
and this idea that it, that it does force you to this kind of cultural mean because that's how you get distribution, I think is just ultimately will suffocate what you're doing in your brand and you'll be no work cuz you're not different and nobody needs you and you're interchangeable with everything else.
But a little anecdote about this this morning, I'm obsessed with learning how the mid journey machine works. Okay. And for those folks that are listening that don't know, mid Journey is a type of generative ai. it's administered and you use it through Discord.
So you write your query in Discord to get an image back, and there's all kinds of commands that you can issue to get very, uh, specific results. and also you can learn, there's guides and there's people that make videos about all of this, but there's words and modifiers that you can use in the prompt to get like crazy levels of, of image fidelity back in, in any category against kind of any influence type, be it an art type or an individual or, any kind of visual genre.
So it's, it's a really cool tool to. One of the things that I was interested in, in the, the pursuit of differentiation. So I write the email people versus algorithms, and it's really just for better or worse, it's just me. It's just an extension of how I think. And I'm not a writer. I, I, I try to do the best I can,
[00:10:19] Brian: Oh, don't, don't do that. Troy.
[00:10:21] Troy: no, no, no, no, no, no.
I was not trained as a writer. I'm getting better at it, but it's not, it's not what I do. Okay. And, and I enjoy it. Or at least I've learned to enjoy it more than I used to at times. It's absolutely torturous. I want to keep focused on this story, Brian, if you permit me.
[00:10:34] Brian: I, of course, I will.
[00:10:36] Troy: one of the things that I always try to do from the beginning is add.
I wanted a visual at the top of my email because I thought that was fun and I like visual stuff. And rather than have a logo on it, like most media brands at the top of a magazine, you have your kind of masthead, right? You have your, whether it's, it says GQ or it says Vogue or L or whatever it says.
I wanted to incorporate this little icon that I have this bear into the image every time. So that gave way, once AI was born, that gave way to me being able to generate bear. in a particular style. And if you look at the email, you'll see that lately I've been coming onto this style, which is kind of like mid-century illustrated, inspired by a bit of a Wes Anderson vibe, all this kind of stuff.
I, I learned to put together a group of modifiers to get the result I wanted. But here's the thing. What I've been trying to do now is train the engine so that I have one character, this particular style of bear, how can I get that particular character repeatedly when a lot of what you get back is random, or not random, but it varies depending on the kind of whims of how the generative process, statistical generation, machine desalination, blah, blah, blah, works.
I love that cuz I'm really into . I'm really into desalination. longtime listeners we'll know that, So anyway, guys, I'm trying to figure out how to train the AI to be my ai. I'm trying to create a visual system and vocabulary through the AI so I can have my own unique expression that's the p v a expression connected to my voice.
And you can think I'm the kind of chubby bear or whatever, but that's, I'm trying to build this. So my point is, is if you learn how to use these tools and you get really good at it, they're a force of differentiation and uniqueness. And if you just plug shit in, like the people at Red Ventures, were doing, you're gonna get mistakes in a description as to whether you should buy a variable rate or fixed rate, you know, home equity loan.
That's not what I'm doing. I'm using it like a paintbrush. and I'm trying to have it adhere to a specific idea and it's really incredible. So back to Kyle, I think that idiots or people that just want to churn out crap will make crap always. but people that want to use this stuff to do things that, very much are their own music, we'll find a way to do it.
so that's my long rambling
desalination talk.
[00:13:10] Alex: I don't love this pessimism around culture because I think it actually doesn't, know, I don't think it looks at how vibrant culture is today. Like we can't go from a place of saying it's crazy that, somebody streaming, themselves watching episodes of Friends is culture for some of these kids.
And it's crazy of how, how much music there is to choose and how many styles we have right now, and how impossible it is to find anything, to watch because everything looks so good and then say that culture is really generic. I think it's culture has been never has been this vibrant. Never was music in the, was music in the sixties, like diversified.
Everybody fucking listened to the Beatles or trying to sound like the Beatles TV in the eighties. Everything looked the same. Everything looked the same in the nineties. Everything looked like it's the first time that you, you can open Spotify now and you can go down rabbit holes where there's like people mixing old types of music and all sorts of crazy shit being made.
And AI is just going to allow more people to make things And make them generic. Sure. But there'll be enough people who want to stand out. I think there's always that drive to stand out and at the end of the day, as, as people, we just wanna feel things and I'm pretty sure that a thousand word generated by an AI might not make us feel the same, then knowing who the writer is at, at behind the newsletter.
Right. Which is why I think things like, you know, newsletters and podcasts are so popular these days because they feel more real. But I, I think that's crazy to say that culture is genericized now. There's just so much of it. And if you go into any space, you'll find a thousand versions of the same thing, but there's a million spaces,
[00:14:41] Brian: Yeah,
[00:14:41] Alex: know, it's
an infinite
[00:14:43] Brian: I think it's also, it's gonna fuel the middle. The bland middle is always big, and it's just gonna become infinite,
[00:14:50] Alex: and it's going to become useless for it, which is great
[00:14:52] Brian: it's already mostly useless, but now it'll just become totally useless. And so,
[00:14:56] Alex: whole thing about Google being in trouble, is that they trade and letting you find the middle stuff. And when the middle stuff becomes useless, why even partake in that, right? You just want the cream that floats to the top, and AI is going to help us find those things too, Because we're looking at a AI generation, but AI, as an editor or somebody that picks things for me, is going to be also a huge way of doing things.
[00:15:16] Brian: but I would be interested in your, your view on the sort of algorithmic impact on design, Because design is a key way of signaling differentiation. It always has been. and it seems to me that as algorithms have grown more powerful. There's been this, and, and Kyle's actually talked about this, about this Blanding, right?
I mean, I think you see it in dtc, it's impossible to tell any of these brands, apart a lot of times. And you've seen it even in luxury where, signaling is so important there.
And everyone's like, logos. Have you ever
seen the
[00:15:48] Troy: pause? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, all right. All right.
[00:15:51] Brian: God the Lord. no. You see it with the logos of all these luxury brands, logos all begin to look alike. I'm sure you've seen that sort of scatter chart of you know, it's impossible to tell the stuff
[00:16:00] Troy: It was a Bloomberg story. Logo, schmo. Listen, here's the thing.
[00:16:04] Brian: look at web design. Web design has all become the same.
[00:16:07] Troy: Well, I mean, I think you should separate web design from kind of u utility driven interfaces, but I'll let Alex talk to that. Alex, by the way, did AI do the haircut?
[00:16:17] Alex: No. What does it look like? Does it look uncanny? Do I have a six finger coming out of it or something?
[00:16:23] Brian: Trey, you always go to people's appearances. I've
noticed I'm, I'm just glad that I'm escaping it. I, I was ready for you to comment on my sweatshirt and I
was, I was, I had a story ready to go for it.
[00:16:34] Alex: I haven't changed my hair in a long time, but you're distracting us, Troy, back, back on target.
[00:16:39] Troy: back on.
[00:16:39] Brian: yeah. You're gonna tell me how dumb that point was that I met Go on
[00:16:43] Troy: what was the point again?
[00:16:44] Brian: It was about the
blanding of
design and whether
[00:16:46] Troy: yeah, it's just, I kind of wanna back Alex up on this one because I'll give you an example, sort of DTC. . That article got written. Everybody said the logos all look the same, all that stuff. Except in the meantime we used to have p and g and a couple of other packaged goods companies. Now we have an unbelievable range of people making innovative products.
Particularly look at, just look at at packaged goods and food par products and pantry products. There were so many, for example, beverages, cool beverages that you can drink. We used to
[00:17:19] Brian: Yeah,
[00:17:20] Troy: and Pepsi and
Sprite.
[00:17:22] Brian: death. Thank God
[00:17:23] Troy: No,
[00:17:23] Alex: Yeah.
[00:17:24] Troy: debt. There's all
[00:17:24] Alex: But, but even, even liquid death and there's all kind of stuff like that. And that's
[00:17:28] Troy: but even like in Crazy Chips and amazing like little health bars and there's so many people making amazing things.
[00:17:37] Alex: graphic design has existed for probably like at least 10,000 years. Right. So nothing is ever truly original. And when you're designing a logo, You're trying to communicate that you're part of a group of products, right? And the logo is never going to be the unique thing. It's all the expression around the logo.
Everybody looks at logo and says ha ha, look at that, that logo for Bolt, looks like this other logo that also has a bolt sign. It's yeah, man, fuck you. You run out of shapes at some point, and, and you try to make it as beautiful as you can, and then you express yourself around it.
And that's what makes you unique. You need more than that. websites all look the same. Yeah. Because a, Google forces us to make website look a certain way. B, there are things that are solved problems in ux like stop reinventing the wheel. Like a search box should be a fucking search box.
It's fine. I think that's also part of it. and the expression around that is where you wanna make things. , unique, I think when an interface looks so original, it's usually a sign that it is really immature and people are still trying to figure out what it is. But at some point somebody figures out that, hey, if you pull down it reloads the page.
Yeah, let's all use that. Great, because you know what? I'm gonna use more than one website in my life. So it's good if they all look the
same and it's like it
pisses me
off. I'm not passionate
[00:18:49] Brian: mean to a anger you.
[00:18:51] Alex: I'm gonna take a walk.
[00:18:52] Brian: It's so phrase. Yeah, that's fine. We could take a break. It's good.
[00:18:54] Troy: no, I'm reminded of, of when, all the Josh Topolsky websites that were impossible to use and stuff. , you were like, oh, this is amazing design.
[00:19:02] Brian: I'm like, this is annoying as shit. It's like really difficult to actually use that stuff. But Alex, are you exercising? Were, cuz you were at Airbnb when the new logo got
[00:19:12] Alex: yeah,
[00:19:13] Brian: right?
[00:19:13] Alex: yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, of course. And it looked
[00:19:16] Brian: The new logo I used to, I used to write for Adweek had this ad freak blog and I was oh, anytime a new logo came out I was like, it's gonna bank tons of page, 9,000 comments. You just had to post the logo and then everyone would, would go into the comments and just rip it to shreds.
[00:19:32] Alex: you know, you know what's great about graphic design is that everybody's got a fucking opinion. So I, I remember, I mean, I was in a room and I was like, ah, this is all good. I think people are making jokes about it. They will remember it in a year's time. Everybody will have just that memorized the way that logo looks and completely forgotten about.
the fun that people were having around, oh, it looks like, boobs or it looks like balls and whatever. Sure. Yeah. Well, sure. Yeah. I mean, that's what I, I, you know, I told Brian, I said, you know what? The fact that it makes people think about every type of genitalia is genius.
Nobody's ever made one that is completely, uh, across the board here. But, people will always have an opinion. That's why it's actually hard to
make
[00:20:10] Troy: that in the, Was
[00:20:11] Alex: little
[00:20:11] Troy: that in the, brief, Alex?
[00:20:12] Alex: yeah, no, of course it wasn't, it wasn't in the brief. And I also like shit, like I, it's one of those things that, you know, it's a little bit of a, of a schoolyard thing.
nobody knows that, This kid's name sounds like some word and some kid says it and then all the kids say it, you know, and lon, nobody saw it until somebody saw it. And, and then nobody saw it again because these things got easily forgotten. And, and the uniqueness of the Airbnb brand wasn't the logo.
It was everything we did around it, including the way the interface worked, including the way we communicate in advertising, including the way we, told you when your credit card was declined. Like, all of these little moments are, are kind of how people interface with the brand and that's how you make it unique.
And now it feels different, right? You know
[00:20:55] Brian: The cleaning fees
[00:20:56] Troy: I
feel, like Alex has had a
kind of, beautiful, beautiful emergence from the sort of production cocoon as a butterfly. And, today is really the moment that he fully, fully came
[00:21:10] Brian: I know who knew? Logo talk. Logo talk. We should have a new segment logo talk.
[00:21:15] Alex: Yeah, we
[00:21:16] Brian: It could be a spinoff.
[00:21:17] Alex: great.
[00:21:17] Brian: People would love to come on and just and tear apart logos. Nobody has ever changed a logo and not
[00:21:22] Alex: I
[00:21:22] Brian: like a lot of negative reaction.
[00:21:24] Alex: can you imagine if you had no flag or if you had a different flag for America and then somebody said, here's the flag rebrand. It's got these lions, it's got these stars. what would the reaction be? Would people love it?
[00:21:35] Brian: South Africa's flag was really well received. Its its new flag when it rebranded.
[00:21:40] Troy: you guys, can we do an exercise here, Brian? Can we, can we talk about, let's just speculate on what we think are some of the great unique differentiated media brands of all time. both, both historical, a few historical examples and new ones. I'd I'd love to hear what you think are examples of people that through a combination of voice point of view, format design, Really have differentiated products that are hard to replace.
[00:22:10] Alex: Media brands or cultural brands? are the Beatles media brand or is it
[00:22:16] Brian: Oh, God.
Can
[00:22:17] Alex: Let's go to media brands. Guys.
Okay.
[00:22:20] Troy: about, about, about, media. Uh, no, we're not doing the Beatles. I'm saying let's put a list together and then we can focus on one. So I'll start with one. The most obvious of all time is the New Yorker, right? It's a type of writing. It's a level of quality, it's a frequency, it's a style of illustration, it is cartoons, it's all of that.
And it hasn't changed much in a very long time, and it's probably the most distilled and differentiated, certainly magazine, media brand of all time.
[00:22:51] Brian: Yeah. I like to use The Economist as my example.
[00:22:53] Troy: Okay, so let's move from, from those two very obvious
examples.
[00:22:57] Brian: I don't think they're necessarily super obvious, cuz I think the differentiation of a publishing brand, I'll just say is if you strip off all of the branding and put it in a Google doc. , and this is me as maybe as a writer.
Do you know who it is? Like with the New Yorker, you totally know who it is. they have a style beyond putting that stupid umla over, like cooperate or whatever it's called
[00:23:19] Troy: Yeah. Could you do that with
[00:23:21] Brian: economists,
[00:23:22] Troy: Brian? Can you do it with yours?
[00:23:23] Brian: uh,
[00:23:24] Troy: certain aspects of your style that are very dis distinctive, for
example.
[00:23:29] Brian: oh no,
[00:23:30] Troy: To me. You are. You are the king of the, of the quip. King of the quip. The one, the little metaphor, right? This week's was, this was a classic Brian Quip.
I'll just share it with the audience. Shamelessness is the final moat. What a brilliant thing
That was Brian
[00:23:44] Brian: thank
[00:23:44] Troy: like I had a shitty Tammy, Faye Baker and analogy. You had that golden thing. good.
[00:23:52] Brian: no, but I think that's always been the, test. If you look at you know, the Economist took it to such extremes, right? cuz consistency is incredibly important. when you wanna establish differentiation, and I think one of the challenges in a chaotic, everything is in an algorithmic feed is that you disaggregate the entire bundle, which is the brand itself.
And you start to look at everything by unit economics. And each piece of content is a skew to be optimized. And when you do that, you optimize into being meaningless to some degree because the hole does not cohere at all. And so I think what you're talking about, with where publishers have really struggled is. you said they've had to do it right. So they had to feed these pipes, they had to feed these beasts with this undifferentiated, very middling, content and think that they could do the differentiated higher end stuff too. And as you have, have rightly pointed out, you gotta understand how you're gonna win.
And I think where brands get into trouble is when they try to win on a couple different levels and they're just like literally competing against themselves. And so it would stand to reason then that people would not regard a lot of these brands as quote unquote premium if they also have an SEO chop shop in the back.
[00:25:03] Troy: Yeah, I think those are great points. But can you answer the question, either of you and listen, uh, permission to go outside of the boundaries of media, but tell me a great brand that's highly differentiated on any of the kind of dimensions that you've articulated, Brian, or Alex that has emerged in the last decade.
Gimme one. People
used to say, well, last 20 years, let's say, people would
[00:25:23] Alex: right?
[00:25:23] Troy: was highly differentiated
cuz they had
[00:25:25] Alex: two years ago. Yeah.
[00:25:26] Troy: had a, a certain type of storytelling. They did news in a certain way. I think they were differentiated. But now to, to be a good media business, you have to be differentiated and you have to.
Value that you can trap. So, so that's a different argument, but is, are there others, Brian, like there could be small ones like strategic, differentiated
[00:25:48] Brian: It's a
terrible name, but he's admitted that it's a terrible name.
[00:25:50] Troy: even little email lists, you know, like Benedict Evans has a huge list. He has a very distinctive voice, a way of writing, a way of covering things. Is that a differentiated media brand?
[00:26:00] Alex: what you're highlighting here is that it's inherently easier to be unique if you are at smaller scale, and especially if you're an individual, because what is more unique than a person, right? And so Mr. Beast is Mr. Beast. That's who he is. He's, you know, a weirdo that, makes YouTube videos and people like it.
I think individual ones are easier. I wonder,
like, for me,
may, well,
[00:26:23] Troy: one.
[00:26:23] Alex: it's less institutional because you want something that's less than 10 years old, and I think that's even more than 10 years old. But I think the Verge intech News seems to have a tone and seems to have at least kind of created something through its website and its podcast and an audience that feels very specific, in tech news and is still very much opinion and personality based.
So I kind of find those guys unique in their own way in tech, uh, news, at least
[00:26:48] Brian: I have no answer. And I think that's because I don't, I think the most digital brands that have been created in the last 10 plus years are completely disposable. I mean, we see this ag time and again, a brand goes away. And I don't, it's terrible when, when people lose jobs and stuff like this, but people go on Twitter and they mourn I can't believe this, this industry is so screwed up.
And a week later nobody cares. And I think that's telling,
[00:27:10] Alex: again.
[00:27:10] Brian: well, I'm a realist. That's which is what every pessimist says when they're accused.
[00:27:15] Alex: I'm a realist. I just think people suck and will ruin everything all the time.
[00:27:18] Brian: look, whatever, cto, the text thread, we all have roles to play. And, but no, look at the scorecard, right? Our scoreboard, You know, the internet started with great promise, and I think all of us love this idea of niches and, uh, an enthusiasts dream and stuff like this. It hasn't really worked.
there haven't been a lot of lasting truly differentiated brands that have been created, that are digitally native.
it's every time we kind of get stuck in media, things get a little dark because I think media is just a, a sad story over and over if you want, differentiated and a, a way to look at things optimistically, I think you move into gaming, and I would say one of the massive brands, of course is Fortnite or something like Roblox.
[00:28:01] Alex: And let me tell you, if Fortnite or Roblox disappeared overnight, what would happen is what happens with a lot of video games. It would get a huge community of people that find some way to rebuild servers and get it to run. There's currently like games that came out in the nineties that are being kept alive by people.
there are games like Roone Scape, which I don't understand, I think looks, like it did when it was launched in 2001. But a huge community of people are still,
you
[00:28:25] Brian: but so why is that? Because people are invested in it.
[00:28:28] Alex: I think media got the. worst Part of tech, which was they started obsessing around scale and velocity.
So everything had to move fast and quickly. Nothing was built to stand the test, of time, and so you create an environment by giving all that stuff to Google, where of course nobody's loyal to it because I'm just a Google search away from another thing, right? But a commitment in a game, you download it, you install it, you build a community, it has, network effect attached to it.
you put effort into it, right? Because you upgrade your character or whatever. So these are kind of community building components that create a lot of engagement and create a lot of loyalty. And people have completely different relationships with games that they do with media products. and so I would say, it's why maybe things like games or shows on H B O or things that are in inherently like high quality stand the test of time. I think just most of media isn't great,
[00:29:18] Brian: Trey, I think he's coming for your months to moments, tagline,
[00:29:21] Troy: I think he speaks the truth, but I had a different realization and I was like, , oh my God. I talk about, you know the importance of niche and media and how you be relevant and, the connection to kind of point of view and the people behind it and all that. and then I was just, I was using YouTube yesterday and I realized that all the stuff that we self-important media types used to call media is really just kind of literally like you're shoveling hay
into this great big participatory machine. And if you watch. If you consume media like my son does or the way I was yesterday, you are looking up how to do something or how to get very specific information on YouTube and what will come up as someone who's dedicated their time and or life to explaining that to you.
They're usually from Australia or like the Nordics or something, they do a walkthrough of a game or a walkthrough of a piece of software. They, they tell you how to do things and then they send you to get more information or to connect your Discord account and they tell you how to kind of connect with, Twitch, or they say, hook your Twitter account up to, the machine.
And everything is insane. I'm, I'm a little conceptual right now, but everything is insanely participatory. You're doing things, you're active, you're making. , and you're really in the media, right? And the people that are, that you're playing with are, are individuals. They're not institutions, and they're not even individuals that are like thoughtfully crafting their media brand.
They're just doing shit they love and making content. They're just, they're making content as a total extension of who they are as people. And in, and, and then an article from the Verge, or an article from something outside is just like, oh yeah, whatever. Put it in. Oh, there's a data point, there's a link.
it's not meaningful. There's no deep meaning ascribed to a relationship with that fucking media brand. the relationship is what that individual wants to do as an active participant in the internet. And so it's all about interactivity, but it's not like interactivity and oh, send them down into the comments.
The comments don't even matter. It's like I'm active by definition. And so I just think that when I watch, people use their machines to participate in the internet, media consumption is the last thing they think about.
[00:31:50] Brian: it's funny that you, bring that up because I don't know if
you saw this, there was no, that made, that made total sense. I would just, perhaps as the pessimistic, since I have my role to play, I think that basically what people are doing though is they're not necessarily being quote unquote themselves.
They're forming a version of themselves in order to feed into the algorithm, because that's what the algorithm demands, right? So this weekend, in the times there was a, a really fascinating essay. Maybe we can put in the show notes. YouTube gave me everything. Then I grew up, by this woman.
Ellie Mills and she was a YouTuber from 2012 to 2022 during her teenage years. Uh, at 24 she quit, after having accumulated nearly 2 million, subscribers on YouTube. And she writes about like how she was presenting, uh, this romanticized view of herself that was really just dictated by the endorphin and also monetary rush that came from increasing popularity.
But it wasn't based on what she really wanted to do. It was based on what the algorithm demanded. and I think it was a point, Alex, you made earlier when we were discussing the Mr. Beast sort of semi controversy over trying. blind people, get, an operation, uh, which on the face of it was, you know, ludicrous and I think it just entered the sort of culture warYou made an interesting point that it was about the packaging, right? Because the packaging of the video, because you have to pack, everything is optimized in, in
these feeds.
[00:33:17] Alex: Yeah. It's that thumbnail where he looks weird. The kid looks weird. It's just like such a creepy thumbnail that, you know, you hate the video just because of the thumbnail without understanding the content.
[00:33:26] Brian: Yeah, no, and, and this, this woman writes about this, you know, at some point it was like on this treadmill of trying to always get more and more attention. And she says, you know, my self-worth had become so intertwined with my career that maintaining a genuinely felt life or death, I was stuck in a never ending cycle of constantly trying to top myself to remain relevant.
YouTube soon became a game of, what's the craziest thing you do for attention? My answer legally marry my sister's boyfriend,
[00:33:56] Alex: Well, look, look, just to be clear, there is a ton of bad behaviors that are incentivized by the algorithm. uh, you know, I think it's a running thread in this podcast, right? We know that the incentives that the algorithms bring up kind of ruin a lot of stuff. It's ruined the internet.
Google ruined the web with that. YouTube definitely. Forces people to create a very specific type of content. But I think that there is so much content that if you only look a little bit, there's so much content that is real and wholesome and just, or weird or whatever you want it to be, right? And it's never been better.
And I think to base the state of culture and media entirely based on whatever the algorithm feeds you is, kind of giving up you're basically saying oh, well I just watched what the algorithm shows me. No man. Get on Reddit. Look up some lists of things that people recommend in a topic that you love and you will find some amazing things.
You just need to put some work
[00:34:49] Brian: Yeah. Yeah. No, I think that's very servicey, I think. But the reality is most people are, uh, lazy and they're content to have, and that's why algorithms are so powerful because they bring it to you. you just open your phone, you just open TikTok, and then it's just like, comes right at you. You open Facebook or Twitter, whatever.
I think people like us tend to be a little elitist and say well, people are dumb and they don't get the right content.
elitist. I'm a man of the people. What are you talking about?
[00:35:12] Alex: I think people do fine. I think there's just like access to stuff and if you talk to people, they're all into all sorts of weird shit, you know?
[00:35:19] Troy: I wonder what happens to those kids that, grow up consuming media. as part of media in a, in a real kind of participatory equation. Do they just read the New York Times when they grow up and, is there a point at which like the YouTuber you just cited, just sort of say, I'm giving up on this stuff and I'm just gonna, just
gonna read, you know, that that thing
[00:35:39] Alex: I'm 46 years old. I didn't grow up as a kid with the internet, but I, I kind of became an adult on the internet. I haven't read a New York Times article in the last six months,
[00:35:48] Brian: if children's behavior patterns were led to adult behavioral patterns, we would have no red wine industry. I think that was once said to me, I mean,
[00:35:56] Troy: Yeah, but Alex is the representative, Manchild in terms of his, uh, relationship with technology and media on this podcast. Like last night, I was on Discord and I saw that Alex was playing a video game and it was announced in his Discord profile. I never, by the way, interact with Alex on Discord, so he must have,
I sent him a note and he must have gone like, why are you in here with me?
literally, I found him in the basement, in the rec room playing a fucking game, and I caught him in there and it was like, what? What are you doing in here with me?
[00:36:25] Alex: Yeah.
[00:36:25] Troy: consume media like us, Brian.
[00:36:27] Alex: No, I consume media. Like people consume media now and you guys are still reading fucking scrolls and saying, why isn't anybody buying that like fucking Papa Paris newsletter that I create? Okay. This is not how people consume media anymore.
I, I'm just, I'm I'm just saying that there's nothing wrong with reading The New York Times is just, there are multiple ways to get information.
I find myself pretty up to date, without having to ever read the New York Times. I had a subscription for a while. I realize I don't read it. I only play Wordle.
[00:36:54] Troy: yeah, but you don't love, you don't love to read admittedly, right? You, you actually want you to, you don't read my newsletter. You just have it. You press the play button on it.
[00:37:02] Alex: Yeah. And I have this, robot read it to me.
[00:37:05] Troy: Yeah. Snoop Dogg. Listen. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Before we go too deep, Brian, you made a great suggestion earlier to me that
[00:37:13] Brian: Oh,
[00:37:14] Troy: a, a clip from that b BBC interview.
[00:37:16] Brian: it was children BBC interviewed school children in the 1960s. Doesn't say when, and for them to predict what life was gonna be like in, I think believe it was the year 2000. and I think the kids were pretty prescient in that fear of, Data and the robots taking over.
a lot of the sort of sky is falling talk when it comes to like, AI I think is, none of this is new,
let's hear what these kids had to say.
[00:37:40] Alex: I think it'll be a, um, people will be regarded more as statistics than as actual people. I don't think it's gonna be so nice. I think sort of all machines everywhere, everyone doing everything for you. You know, you'll get all bored and I don't think it'll be so nice. First of all, computers are taking over now.
Computers and automation and in the year 2000, there just won't, won't be enough jobs to go around and the only jobs there will be will be for people with High hq. You know, high IQ can work, computers and such things, and other people are just not gonna have jobs. They just aren't gonna be jobs for them to have.
[00:38:20] Brian: It's kind of uncanny though, right? I mean like concerns about people just being statistics. Check , the concerns about the only people who will be able to like, get ahead are the people who understand how to manipulate the machines. Check. and I don't mean that it's like reality.
I just mean like the fears that people have of machines taking over and humans being, controlled in many ways by machines are natural. They're normal. They've been with us forever.
[00:38:46] Alex: it's always striking when you see how actually smart people were back in those days because we usually see them as relatively ignorant , right? We always see past humans as they didn't know what the hell they were talking
[00:38:58] Brian: no, these were super like on point.
[00:39:00] Alex: if you ask kids today, it would kind of be like, well, it looks like all those computer jobs are gonna go and I gotta learn how to become a plumber, because that's the job that really pays money.
[00:39:10] Brian: Yeah, I had an electrician. He just didn't show up. He knows what's going on. He's whatever. I can show up and not show up.
[00:39:15] Alex: It's great that you know, being craftsperson is, is kind of becoming a very valid career again. it always was, I think everybody wanted to become an engineer. And I was talking to an engineer yesterday and I was saying, I think there's that whole middle layer of engineers or you know, people who write data queries in data science.
That type of stuff is all gonna go away. so there's a huge middle, like the middle once again, right? Gets,
[00:39:40] Brian: I know all those poor people that were like convinced that they needed to learn to code, so they went to general assembly for six months. It's probably not
gonna be a good bet.
[00:39:49] Alex: while some of those will have learned things that allows them to make something their ideas real and change the world. but if you were planning to, just get a, job that got, you got buy-in, that might be a little, harder. Troy,
you made us play this video.
What did you wanna say?
[00:40:04] Troy: Well, I wonder what we learned today,
[00:40:05] Alex: what do we ever learn?
[00:40:06] Brian: Learning is a journey
[00:40:08] Troy: Mr. Moderator. What do
we learn today?
[00:40:10] Alex: I think, we've learned, I mean, I think the idea of a media brand is synchronistic in, today's age because, that is not how people consume content anymore. I think people want to feel something.
Troy mentioned participation being so important. I think participation helps you, feel something and feel part of something and which is why that passive media that's done at scale, at the velocity. you know, all that stuff's going to be replaced by TikTok and the rest is going to be stuff that feels much more engaging, to its audience and much
[00:40:39] Brian: Yeah. So I think we're coming outta this era of fleeting media impressions cuz you're feeding machines And the point that Alex was making about video games, I think was pretty simple, but profound in that, there are examples of media when you get out of the sort of bubble of thinking about medias like publishing
people are incredibly loyal to that. Like when you see a lot of publishing brands go away and, and a few people on Twitter get upset and then everyone just move on with their lives. Like that absolutely would not happen with Roblox. Like I would have nephews in Switzerland that were refusing to go to school.
it's a particular type of media, but I think you can always learn from that. And I think what the big thing, I'm not a video gamer is people are invested in it, And I don't think that a lot of the media products have been put out over the last 20 years. People are invested in.
[00:41:25] Troy: you know, in the entertainment business, really the only people that survive the transition to direct platform Relationships with consumers are a small handful, maybe three to five of scaled platform. entertainment providers like, Netflix, Disney, potentially a couple of others, and we're watching in real time that entire ecosystem where the people that lived in the bundle in the middle, whether it was Showtime or anybody else, just become.
hollowed out. there were insane profits in that business because you could make a couple of good shows and then against a hundred million cable subscriber universe, at a $6 premium on the bundle, you could, generate an enormous amount of revenue against your cost base.
And those were the good days, right? And so you're gonna have on one end really massive scaled streaming companies. and the gaming side will be similar because it's so complex. the, one of the questions in gaming is whether the threshold of, scale comes down as technology improves.
But anyway, you'll have those big entertainment companies and then a lot of other people that just make media as is an extension of who they
are.
[00:42:34] Brian: let's get into good, good product
[00:42:39] Alex: I was gonna do the obvious this week, and I have not been to Costco and I think 20 years. we were driving out to a spot out to Shelter Island, and I was like, we ought to go to Costco. So we dutifully got in line, got the stupid $60 membership, they tried to upsell me to the $120 membership, all of that.
[00:42:59] Troy: And I got in there and I was, I bought the dollar 50 hotdog and I was like, oh my God, Jill, you spend. $15 on a can of salmon at the local whatever, and I can buy eight cans of Lime cot salmon for 1499 at Costco. I was shocked by the, utility of the place and also by, how happy people seem to be to be working there.
And then I ate my body weight in samples. I ate every sample I could walk by and it was really great. They don't have samples in Brooklyn at the local grocery store, but that's not my best product this week. Good
[00:43:36] Brian: Oh, it's not
[00:43:36] Troy: My good product. I, no, no, I think that my good
[00:43:39] Alex: Well, did you know, just, just hang on, I just wanted to say something on Costco. did you know that Costco has one of the highest employee satisfaction, uh, ratings, which
is interesting for a big Yeah.
[00:43:50] Brian: said they pay people.
[00:43:51] Alex: Yeah, they pay people and it's generally, paying people is one thing.
Good management is the other. But I think that there's something that you feel it's, once again, people want to feel something and you walk into a Costco and feeling that not everybody's miserable. Like every single Best Buy that I've walked into or Office Depot
[00:44:09] Brian: Yeah.
[00:44:09] Alex: makes it feel
[00:44:10] Brian: Yeah, I wouldn't overthink it. Costco pays $19 an hour. In New York, that's $40,000 a year. That's way more than most retail pays.
[00:44:17] Troy: my good product pick is a little indie Brian, so I'm just going to, establish that so you don't, to call me out on that. But I, I was thinking that this guy is a good product. His name is Mac DeMarco, and I love Mac DeMarco. he's a sort of fiercely independent, very, popular kind of indie icon musician.
He's actually from, he grew up in Edmonton, so anybody, any musician that's from Canada usually has a soft spot in my heart. but I listened to him the other day on the How Far Gone Podcast, which is kind of a highly indulgent music oriented podcast, you know about O'Brien
[00:44:53] Brian: gone.
[00:44:55] Troy: how long gone?
How far gone, how long Gone. Mc, Demarcos amazing. he's like financially independent. his music is so, MC DeMarco when you hear it, you know exactly who's playing it. he does what he wants to do. He's sort of like the ck equivalent of a musician and he caters to a super niche community, but it's big enough to make a great living.
he just, for example, released an all instrumental album, which no one does. He doesn't give a shit what the record company says. He does things cuz he wants to do them. he is totally soup to nuts. Like he produces his stuff. He solders and wires up his amps and keyboards to get the sounds that he wants and, To me, he, is the antithesis of corporate rock the corporate music machine, and is designed for the world we live in.
And I love Magna Mar.
[00:45:45] Brian: Well, that's inspiring.
[00:45:46] Alex: And truly unique and a
[00:45:47] Brian: Yeah,
[00:45:48] Alex: of how diverse and interesting culture is
[00:45:51] Brian: and a counterpoint
to likethe masses of artists that are chewed up and spit out by the algorithmic machines that roll the industry
[00:45:58] Troy: Yeah. Yeah.
[00:45:59] Outro
[00:45:59] Brian: All right. On that hopeful note, optimistic note, let's wrap it up there. Thanks for listening to the episode.
Do us a favor and rate and review the episode Wherever, you do listen to it, that helps people find it. We'll be back next week with a new episode.
Alex and I are using you.
and the worst part is I would love to be used for some sort of like higher order purpose, but I'm still used for like tasks.
Like investment bankers are used, but they get paid handsomely to be used. I wanna be used like that.
[00:46:26] Troy:


PVA S1E23
PVA S1E23
[00:00:00] Alex: I have to tell you, I'm a little shaken from yesterday's indulgences.
[00:00:04] Troy: Brian. You owe me 50 bucks, by the way.
[00:00:06] Brian: Oh, I thought it was a hundred. You're letting me off easy.
[00:00:08] Troy: Venmo me like I did to you immediately after losing the bet last time.
It's not
the money that I want, I want the acknowledgement that I won the bet. And I feel badly for you because I like you a lot and I want you to be happy.
[00:00:19] Brian: it was a very stressful evening for me, Alex.
[00:00:22] Alex: well, I can't imagine.
[00:00:23] Brian: I smelled different by the
[00:00:24] Alex: Detroit
[00:00:25] Troy:
[00:00:25] Brian: you know, when you're so stressed, you actually smell different at the end of an experience.
[00:00:31] Intro Start
[00:00:53] Brian: Welcome to People Versus Algorithms, a show about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Morrisy. I write the Rebooting Newsletter, and each week I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young, writer of the People Versus Algorithms Newsletter. And Alex Schleifer, former head of design at Airbnb, and founder of Universal.
This week we're discussing interfaces and how they shape our media experiences, the interface abstracts, the technology that powers these experiences. It took the graphical user interface for the internet to become mainstream for generation. The search interface has been the defacto starting point for digital media that's giving Google tremendous power, and it's also shaped people's expectations.
The advances in artificial intelligence enabled search are coming and they're coming fast and furious with chat. G P T racing ahead to a hundred million users. Microsoft has just rolled out AI enabled version of its Bing search engine, and Google itself has demoed its response, although it's been mostly panned, much of the focus rightly has been on the actual results.
Are they better? , are they accurate? Are they racist? Is this AI robot sentient? And weirdly, there is an impulse to try to pick a fight with the robot. There are entire subreddits devoted to real or photoshopped creepy interactions with the AI bots. It's hard to tell what's reality these days, but perhaps just as important is the interface.
The search query is being replaced by convers. You know, you chat, you don't search. When you use these tools, and if this takes off and it's still a big, if it would fundamentally alter the most important interface in digital media, I mean, this is remarkable. I mean, clippy with a come from behind victory would be as shocking as a resurgence of QR codes.
So in the spirit of the shift to conversational interfaces, Troy, Alex and I discussed the implications of this and how the media business will need to adapt. Thanks to everyone who have left a rating and review on this podcast.
A particular thanks this week to Stu O'Neal, who called this show quote, a very entertaining and conversational. TED talk. Thank you Stu, particularly for not saying this was like a TEDx talk. We do have ambitions here. If you have a moment, please do leave a rating and review with any topics you'd like to see us cover or just email them to me.
I'm b morrisy@therebooting.com.
[00:03:11] Intro End
[00:03:13] Brian: we're gonna do desalination later, Troy, so I'm gonna get to you on that
[00:03:16] Troy: Thank you. Thank
[00:03:17] Brian: So I wanna start with Alex, who's, who's the expert, in this particular area.
[00:03:22] Alex: what, what's the question?
[00:03:23] Brian: you guys k keep asking about, it's like we riff off each other. It's a conversation. first of all, explain the importance of the interface and, and the role it plays. I know this is very basic, but just for my own ed.
[00:03:34] Alex: at a basic level. We have computers that do things and people that want to do things right. And, the history of the interface has been building new ways to communicate people's intentions into things that computers could do. it started with. Complex things like punch cards and then layers of abstractions got removed.
and we got to using a mouse and a keyboard and now a touch. people are saying that this next version of the interface is, augmented reality glasses, right? So it's just getting closer and closer to the human, way of experiencing things. businesses have tried all sorts of ways of monetizing that by, either selling, the thing that provides the interface or providing the interface itself, all the way to placing ads within the interface.
Right? and you can look at it like really mechanically like that, but I think what we're also seeing now is, kind. Mechanical parts of the interface, like d ui, the buttons that you press, and then some of the more, semantic or intellectual ways the interface is changing.
searching used to mean you had to type the keyworded precisely, but today's searching means you can type. Something that means the thing you look for, right? And so computers have become better and better at dealing with the way humans think. We make spelling mistakes, we don't organize our thoughts clearly.
but most of the internet has been built around this idea of needing to provide interfaces to do things. And I think that's going to change a lot with ai.and I think AI is going to fundamentally change both the mechanics and. cognitive parts of the interface. Does that make sense?
Did I become too academic here?
[00:05:09] Brian: Uh, slightly, but, uh, just to bring it. What, what did you , what did you specifically
[00:05:14] Troy: maybe next time you'll call on me first. Brian
[00:05:17] Brian: Well, now, now, now I'm understanding. No, I'm just kidding. This, it's, it was good. That's why I went to, for expertise. when you've experienced the interfaces of these early AI products, like what can we take away from that?
[00:05:28] Alex: I think that humans are really comfortable, using conversations to get stuff done. It's very appealing for human beings to use conversations that is non-linear and it changes a lot of things, because it used to be you're using a tool and now you are, being much more natural about how you kind of forming thoughts and trying to get stuff out of the computer.
[00:05:48] Brian: but it's also kind of, it's maybe this is too abstract. It's kind of dishonest, isn't it? cuz it's, it's acting as if it's a conversation. When it's not a conversation. It's
acting as if it's like a person with that's actually sharing something with you when it's just like an simulation of conversations that have taken place, that it has scraped and reformulated.
Into something that is the approximation of a conversation. And even to me, the experience is interesting because they made very specific choices. you watch it, like answering as if you're actually watching like a person, you know what I mean?
[00:06:18] Alex: all human computer interface is dishonest. If you wanna frame it like this, did you know that when you're pressing a button on a glass, it's not really a button? It's just something that those are abstractions. No, but I
think I look, we, we, we want
[00:06:33] Brian: we can edit that one out.
see, advantage of you doing the, uh, editing. Alex, you can keep that in
[00:06:40] Alex: there's a difference between I'm trying to trick people into thinking there's a human on the other side and making things feel more human friendly. Does that make sense?
[00:06:47] Brian: Troy, you've been biting your time. , get in here. what was your takeaway when the interface changes, how does the media end up like changing because of that?
[00:06:54] Troy: I think dramatically. I kind of had a brain fart about it and wrote about it a bit last week. you know, I mean, I just watched and sort of as a person in media, you see how profoundly. The environment you create for affects the media. You know that Brian better than anyone. And platforms or distribution environments change content.
it's a user mode. It's a typically a format. it's usually an ad system. I think it's a competitive playground where you have to try to get attention above another person who's also trying to get attention in there. . and certainly it's an expectation from the consumer that the content will match the environment that you're delivering it in.
things conform to the interface, right? And today we have a structure through Google, and this is not describing, the rest of the social web or the other ways to, we access information. But certainly when we seek things out through Google.
We go from the query, as Alex pointed out. I think that that's become more human in it, ability to absorb, the way we actually ask for things. and then you get the response on the cert page and there's a lot of discussion about how you order, advertising and organic results and how the system has been built over time to trap more and. Money. Well, I think doing a fairly good job up until recently of balancing the needs of the consumer. Anyway. Then there's the link and then there's the page, and we're just totally conditioned to this, and I think this is really, really important. That's how we think about getting information. , right? At least I do.
that's my process. I open a tab. I often, type not in Google, but certainly in the navigation bar, in the browser, and I get information and I go to a website and I think that. The back and forth changes a huge amount when it's not really searching. When you're asking and you're in this kind of back and forth volley with with AI where it's responding to your questions.
And then I think it's really interesting cuz if you play with this stuff, you realize that. , it's never gonna be right all the time. And certainly we've seen blunders recently where it's not right cuz we're not. The Internet's not right, therefore the robot's not gonna be right. And then you do realize very quickly that point of view seeps into the thing these interfaces are not neutral.
They'll try to make them neutral, but they're not neutral. And it actually is gonna be the kind of nexus of the next wave of kind of culture wars as it pertains to, to media culture, because, people will want them to be neutral, but they never will be.
I think then that what happens is, what I call it is the citation. Which is, very, very important in this equation because the citation gives the answer either credibility or space to be subjective. Because what it's saying is, I got this from somewhere. And I think that the new war, if the old one was the war to get on the cert page with the link, the new war is to get cited.
the citation is the new battleground.
[00:09:49] Brian: but this is like the answer box wars. I covered search for years in the early days ask chiefs, how did this, they had smart answers.
[00:09:56] Troy: But They, weren't very smart though, right?
[00:09:58] Brian: they didn't have the, intelligence ,
But the interface of what Ask Chiefs was doing back then is more like what? The interface of search will be like, and what I'm interested in is also is the trade offs you make to interfaces when it comes to business models. Right. Because there's a whole bunch of different reasons I think most of us would probably agree that Google has soft pedaled, it's AI advancements.
It's been reputed to be a leader in this field. It has such a headstart. It's hard to believe it got caught flatfooted, but in some ways it's like a prisoner of the interface. That search has, right? Because it works so well with advertising, Google can do whatever. they never gave financial guidance because they didn't have to, because if they could dial in exactly where they wanted to be cuz they would just change the interface, they would make more or less money changing the interface.
[00:10:46] Alex: a couple of things. First of all, I, disagree completely that the citation's going to be valuable. Nobody. Going to click on these things
and uh, and people are going to notice that soon. The citation is a way of, Microsoft saying, look, we still link you, but they know that you know something is gonna happen.
Something's gonna need to happen
[00:11:04] Troy: Well over, over time, Alex, I think more of the interaction in the use case gets absorbed into the chat for.
[00:11:11] Alex: and I think the, the value needs to come out of if you create content that is unique that you can protect, we're gonna start seeing deals where Microsoft buys exclusive rights to Cora. we're gonna see these deals because that's where the money's gonna be and I think it's going to really hurt advertising.
I asked Neil Vogel this, won't we see like publishers with unique data and content saying you cannot train your algorithms on this.
A hundred.
[00:11:34] Troy: Yeah, That's true, except that anybody, any publisher that's looking for traffic will kind of embrace the fian bargain. That is, put me in your interface. Promised me something, whether it's money or traffic, and I will let you in to scrape my content. it's the same challenge we have today, right?
It's, as a publisher, do you make a decision to open yourself to syndicate your content, to social, to open yourself up, to search, whatever it is. It's a trade off. You get something back, well, you'll only do it to the extent that you get something.
[00:12:07] Alex: Well, well, here's, here's the issue and, and I think that's a little bit of a rabbit hole potentially, but the issue is depends how retroactively that matters. Right? Because at some point, Wikipedia. Has been already scanned by all of these ais, right? And that data is being used. it cannot really gain anything by saying, okay, well we're gonna stop it now, right?
Because the vast majority of that content is evergreen. which you can do with link, which you can do with social, oh, we're gonna stop Instagram from sharing. But the second you've got, two decades of content that's already been sucked into that algorithm. , they can say, okay, we'll stop and still get a lot of value from that content.
which brings me to my next point, the internet economy is built on a lot of middlemen and middlemen, that provide some sort of interface, right? Google provides a search interface, cnn.com provides an interface to read those articles. Once we start interfacing with the computer in a much more naturalistic way, we're not going to really support these middlemen.
We're not going to click on the link. We're not going to follow more. once the thing can give us a grid of. Showtimes for the movie theater or a collection of all the ratings across all product sites, there's not going to really be a need to click on the link anymore. And so that conversation's gonna have to change
And I don't know what that looks like. I just think that, the internet has been built on a lot of interfaces
that
[00:13:28] Troy: I, can I throw something out to you? To you, Alex, Brian, because I have a glimmer of a thought around this and, I don't know, and I don't think anybody knows. First of all, I do think that every time something gets pushed further down the page, we're gonna see hybrid solutions in search for a long time.
And so there will be answers. and it's one of my criticisms of the big interface, by the way. It's just it's so complicated now, which is a Microsoft problem. They, they, they, they tend to clutter up and complicate everything. But my point. , what it does is the citation is a link. Will it get clicked as much of a link in a surp?
No, everything gets pushed down so you get, less traffic is sent out of the system. But I, I think there's other, other issues and, and this is what I kind of wanted help on. So I was thinking about the search box is almost being like the new go with me here, the new news stand. Right?
And so the news stand used to be an important distribution point for newspapers and magazines, et cetera, right? I was thinking how much. That point is gonna put on everything, including, and most probably importantly, economic pressure, because I don't know if you guys have, I think, uh, we had an article going through the text chat that this type of automation, which essentially what it is, is very expensive relative to the search query.
Now that's gonna come down and we'll solve that and we'll make better chips and, we'll, we'll bring the processing costs down, et cetera, but it's gonna force people to add services around search that cost. And you're either gonna get that money back by building more transactions into that.
In other words, some type of affiliate relationship. Or you're actually gonna do what OpenAI is trying to do right now to say, if you want the service to do all these things for you, and just think about the frontier here, seriously, they're gonna keep innovating, adding. Data sets, adding speed, adding new commands, crazy things that you can do.
and they're gonna attempt to charge the consumer for that, right? So now the search box, the people that dominate the search box, oh my god, it's even more powerful than Google was, if you owned that position on the. That's insane. Now there may be a proliferation of it. Brian, just gimme a second here.
But my, my point is,just gimme a sec. The, the, okay. Sorry. Don't, do you have something to say?
[00:15:43] Brian: No, I don't.
[00:15:44] Troy: Okay.
[00:15:45] Brian: I was just breathing deeply. I think I might have Covid. Go
on. I've got other things going on.
[00:15:49] Troy: Okay.
Okay.
[00:15:50] Brian: It's nothing to do with you.
[00:15:52] Troy: so you got this news. That's gonna try to get subscribers. There's gonna be an array of services there. And increasingly the owner of that distribution point is gonna say to media, listen, come here with me and we will do, branded searches from the point of view of your brand.
Or not searches, but like dialogue from the point of view of your brand. And I, I think that you're gonna start to. This really interesting thing where media finds its way back to the chatbot in ways that we've not seen before.
[00:16:25] Brian: Okay, so it's meet the new boss, same as the old boss, basically. it's more publishers being sharecroppers on other people's land. Right.
Okay.
[00:16:33] Troy: but what I'm saying I think is more interesting than that. The idea that, you're flattened into a semantic pancake by a chatbot, and your content loses all of its relevance and it's already lost all of its context in the first wave, right when it w you know, when it was completely blown to bits because the notion of an issue or curation don't really matter.
Now we're going into a new wave where, a chat owner looking to compete might say to a media brand, how can we work together to make this a way better experience? Because people like point of view, people like the brands. You have unique information. You can help me basically make the chatbot
[00:17:12] Brian: Okay. Okay. Who is the
leverage in that, in that negotiation?
[00:17:15] Alex: there's two ways of
looking at it, Like one, one is, you could say that the transaction here is between the learning models, like the people own the learning models and all the computational power. Okay. They hold some sway, right?
The Microsofts and the Googles, And then there's the people who create content that is of value. Not that middle stuff that is going to be decimated, but, content that is of value. And to me, those are two things. It's AOP opinion, And b, real time information, News as it's happening, right?
now in an optimistic model, Both of these forces are kind of equalized and the AI people and the content people have to find a balance that makes everyone happy. Maybe they move away from advertising, maybe they start finding models that are much more subscription based, all that stuff. My worry is that. Humans are programmed to make content. And whenever somebody says, I will not give you my expensive content, there's somebody behind them that wants to make it for, the problem.
And so you're gonna
be competing with that And so imagine where before you might want like one good
[00:18:20] Troy: Is, is this the answer, Alex? To the disincentive question? Why make content, if it's just gonna be absorbed by the AI bot,
[00:18:27] Alex: I mean, that's the problem, right? Because imagine,
[00:18:29] Troy: someone else will make the content? Is that
[00:18:31] Brian: eh,
[00:18:31] Alex: So you have a great
[00:18:32] Brian: I dunno. Music's been a shitty business for a while. People keep making it.
[00:18:36] Alex: it depends for whom, right? Music can be a great business for some people. but if you have a hundred people writing something mediocre, can an AI compile us into something that's actually good enough? Right. I think they're gonna be fighting something good enough that can be sp spat out.
Do I need to read the New York Times 50 AI can like scan Twitter and shit out something that's good enough,
[00:18:58] Brian: Yeah, I mean, I think, I think the problem is, is most media. Really, they zero in on good enough content. The majority of what they do is good enough. I would not wanna be the sort of metaphorical second page of the search result page right now is because you're going to be even more irrelevant.
And even if you were marginal first page, you're gonna be irrelevant. And so, I think it will probably accelerate the sort of power law of you've got some people who are able to do all of these things and make deals with, the people with unique data sets and stuff, but it's going to,
it's
[00:19:31] Alex: run,
[00:19:31] Brian: If you can't attract people directly, it's gonna be really hard.
[00:19:36] Alex: so did you guys listen to the, interview, that Nilay, Patel from the Verge did, with the CEO of Microsoft? Yeah. So at one point he asks a question about that kind of media thing, and the answer is pretty much, we have citations and we'll find different ways of linking back to the content.
but here's a real example. I want to know which the best TV is or whatever, right? And, The system currently will scan the verge and everything like that, and pull out what the best TV is right now. Those sites could start saying, we won't let you do that.
We're going to update our robot txt and we won't let you do that. Fine. The system's just going to go to Reddit. It's going to go to Amazon, and it's going to come back with information that is good enough, and those sites are going to have lose complete relevance overnight if that
[00:20:21] Troy: that was my point about, about the incentive to participate.
[00:20:23] Alex: Yeah, I mean, it's gone.
[00:20:25] Brian: But without that incentive,
[00:20:26] Troy: No, there, there is an, there is an incentive to participate, assuming we find some kind of balance that, that drives, activity down to the page level. But I actually think that the problem is more profound, Alex, and I think that you'll have a thought on this from an AI perspective.
and it's that feeds don't match, or chats don't match with pages. And I think this is a really big, big problem. And so you see this, if you use Bing right now, when you're in chat mode and you're back and forth and you're getting what you need to hit a CI citation and go to some chunky ad driven page that has floating players and you have to wait for it to load and all those things, it doesn't fit with how humans like to navigate information.
They don't wanna move from one mode to another.
[00:21:08] Alex: Yes, and absolutely, and that is the issue we're moving. Think about the way you're changing what you're typing into that box from a Google search to a chat bot and it needed a little bit of, they needed to put it out into the open so you got used to it,
[00:21:24] Brian: I am still not used to it. Like I'm not, I'm
[00:21:26] Alex: It is because it feels weird, but it won't feel weird in a while.
let me give you, an example. I am working on a video game and I'm using Unity and I'm building a very complex graphic stack, and I was getting an obscure bug. and I couldn't find any reference to it in any forum, any Discord group, nobody could help me with it. It was very obscure, very much based on my current stack. I just decided to say, well, what if I asked ChatGPT as If I was asking another engineer, Hey, I'm having this issue. Here's what's coming up. What do you think it could, it came up with three ideas of what it could be that managed to let me solve the.
problem
[00:22:01] Troy: That's amazing.
[00:22:02] Alex: It's incredible
[00:22:03] Troy: so cool.
[00:22:04] Alex: and, and I was like writing complex queries in Google, trying to find key keywords and stuff like
that, but I just asked him, it's gone.
[00:22:11] Troy: No, but even, even a simple use case like the one I did. This weekend on Friday, I asked, Bing what I should do this weekend in new. normally you would do the sort of, if you, if that was your use case, you'd do this kind of Google based hunt and peck.
It gave me a list of activities around the city, including Free Fridays at the MoMA. I then said, tell me more about Free Fridays at the MoMA, and it gave me all the details of the, hours. what's there, why you should go, should you bring kids, all of that. and it said, and if you don't want to go to this, there's something at the Met that's very similar, and you would never get that with that level of efficiency and fidelity off of Google.
It would take you a, a much longer time to do it. and the next step is obviously they're gonna be sort of API driven frameworks to integrate ticketing into that, to do notifications, to tell your friend, to put it in your schedule, all of that stuff. And these use cases are gonna be so sort of rounded out and complete.
By a number of people integrating with chat that it's gonna completely change the way we use the web.
[00:23:13] Brian: What does the interface look like then for a media company? choose one area of media in an AI era. What, what interface then? Because the current interface of. The open web is completely broken. I think everyone would agree. The New York Times had an article, about how digital ads are horrible nowadays like they've ever been great.
[00:23:34] Troy: that was the, was that in reference to Twitter ads?
[00:23:36] Brian: no, it wasn't. It was based on all ads, I guess, and it was, it didn't mention Apple and I D F A and uh, at t, but whatever. what does the interface look like? In an AI era where people are conditioned, cuz I think a lot of this is people are gonna become conditioned on expecting these kinds of experiences and
[00:23:55] Troy: it's a really good question. It's, this is back to my question of mode, and I think. In order for you to switch modes, you have to be willing and prepared to do it, and the value proposition has to be incredibly clear to you. So if someone said to me, Hey, by the way, there's a really good reference on online advertising written by a thoughtful tenured creator named Brian Morrisey.
Do you wanna read that? Now? I might say, I'm gonna take 10 minutes and. , But I'm, consciously switching between, chat and going to read something. It's not unlike, for example, our pod people, thread that we have going, there's a bunch of back and forth between me, you and Alex.
We make jokes, we talk about what's going on, all that stuff. And then there's a link that someone will put in there. And if you have time or you decide to, you'll make the discreet like a discrete decision to go out and visit that link, but has to be worth it. And it has to be worth it. And you have to be.
to take the time to do it. And I think that, you'll have mechanisms to stack up articles so that, I want to read now and you'll go and you'll read them. But, but let's be very, very clear. Brian, it's not good. It, it meaning it's not good for media creators and media brands
[00:25:05] Alex: let's look at, because the mode thing is absolutely correct, conversational search essentially changes the mode because when you were looking at something like a Google search results and clicking links, and you would go into something else and click more links, that would be the same mode and you would, move around that space.
This has been a, a shift into a different mode. Now the question is, is this mode better the other mode? And I think for 90% of queries, it absolutely is. That's the issue,
[00:25:31] Brian: I don't know if this is actually true, so I'll just run up by you guys. Well, I think what's interesting is the feed mixed modes, right? Like you were in all kinds cuz you were just in scroll mode I guess. But scroll mode encompassed everything. It was like it flattened everything, whether it was photos, whether it was videos, whether it was articles, and that had a profound impact, I feel like on how people perceived media and consumed it.
Whereas this is actually emphasizing the modes.
[00:25:58] Alex: Or the switching of modes,
[00:25:59] Brian: That's what I mean.
[00:26:00] Alex: yeah. Yeah. Absolutely.
[00:26:01] Brian: Like in a feed that you're in one mode, you're just in this manic scroll mode. and, and I think that had a real impact because people mindlessly were like clicking, I don't wanna say mindlessly, but like they lost sight of what brand they were even on. It was just all, just a bunch of stuff that you just go through.
[00:26:18] Alex: the thing is when you're looking at search,you usually go to search with a specific query trying to find some sort of, Knowledge or information about something, And you end up kind of meandering through that search. And this is where there's a lot of opportunity to sell you, access to a new interface via ads or via subscription, and you're kind of meandering in that space, right?
I think there's still gonna be a,A reason for you to go and open GQ and read an article because you're like in that mode of reading an article on GQ or checking out this interview that you've heard about, and that's still going to behave like normal search or like normal, linking into something.
The question is how many of these queries and how much of our behavior on the internet is just looking for an answer. and finding it and I would say that the majority of media is making money off that stuff,
[00:27:07] Troy: Yeah, I mean, I, I it is a re it's a really good point. So, so I think that what, what happens there is it forces, it forces a reset. in expectations around how much volume we get to content in the things that we create, just to get distribution, which for many media companies is a lot of stuff that we, we create with the purposes of filling up the pipes to get people to pay attention to our content and our brand and ultimately make us money.
But it really is gonna force. Kind of reckoning around how we look at the economics of an interaction with a human being. Because what happened is the whole system was set to volume mode to scale mode. Lots and lots and lots of page views, very, very low CPMs. those page views are gonna atrophy materially, and we're gonna have to kind of really figure.
what it's worth to, to spend quality time, under the sort of influence of a media brand connecting to an
[00:28:02] Brian: Yeah. And that
also, changes the surface area. This is a word you love and Facebook love surface area. Does that differ from, Interface
[00:28:09] Alex: I think I have the trademark on that, Brian,
[00:28:11] Brian: do you
[00:28:12] Troy: I appreciate the, the, uh, the,
reference. I, I, I, I very much appreciate the citation on that
[00:28:18] Brian: no problem. That's where I picked it up.
Whenever I try to seem sophisticated, I use surface area.
[00:28:22] Troy: And I've also trademarked my new media brand called Desalination Weekly,
[00:28:28] Brian: That's good.
[00:28:28] Alex: Let, let me ask you guys a question. You're media people, throughout this kind of rocky relationship between, media and technology. Media has always. Acquiesce to what technology was asking. and the latest phase of that was yes, create a lot of content, for pennies, that we will suck into an algorithm to suck into a massive generative model, until we don't need you anymore.
you were like kind of Uber drivers while Uber was looking at self-driving cars. You're like, yeah, keep doing that. So we're learning about it, and then one day we can replace you.
[00:29:00] Brian: the tech people, should be like thankful that the media people aren't more pissed if you ask me. .
[00:29:05] Alex: it's this thing, the reason creators will always be. Duped or mistreated is because there's this urgent people to be creative and artistic and put out their content, and corporations will always abuse that. Always
[00:29:19] Brian: Yeah, it, it's like the F, it's like Freakonomics, like with the why doest, the drug dealers still live with their parents kind of thing. It's like these glamor professions always attract, and glamor is in quotes, they always attract people that make uneconomic decisions. It's like becoming a drug dealer.
It's like a terrible job. You're out in the cold all the time. You got a good chance of getting picked up for jail. You got a small chance of ever making it into like a. Big position, but if you do, it's great. And so it always has a ready supply Anyway,
[00:29:51] Troy: That was really good.
[00:29:52] Brian: that's
why people go work for fashion
[00:29:55] Alex: so, back to my question, Somebody you care about says, Hey, I really am passionate about content. I wanna make a media company. It is 2023, the dawn of everything changing. What do you tell them?
[00:30:07] Troy: run.
[00:30:09] Brian: I gave an interview to a Columbia J School, student on Friday for a project she was working on about, Buzzfeed And I remember being like a Columbia J School student asked to call people off these things. they're annoyed by 'em.
So I, of course, I talked to her and She asked great questions. She called me Mr. Marcy. It made me feel really old, and I was like, please don't do that. you know, we talked about like her career I still think it's like a good career. I don't have any regrets.
if you're incredibly curious, depends on what you wanna optimize to. I think there's gonna be new paths that open up, like anything, it's gonna get harder, but it's always been hard.
[00:30:39] Troy: I mean, what do you tell a person that wants? No, I think that's absolutely right. my son's a musician. What do I say? Your life is gonna be filled with, heartache. make music. That's what you should do. You should make, and if you wanna make content and you wanna understand the world better and you wanna, find the truth and all that, do that.
[00:30:55] Brian: Yeah, do it. And if it doesn't work out, just go into pr. It's fine.
[00:30:59] Troy: No, but what are you gonna say? Don't do that. Go to a c, go to accounting school,
[00:31:02] Alex: people will want to do what they want to do. Right. I'm not saying, you know, how would you convince somebody not to become a writer?
I'm just saying if you meet someone who wants to create a media company like we are doing now. Right. what would you tell them to look out for right now? and what is the trade that you would allow yourself to make with technology or not to make with technology?
[00:31:21] Brian: I would say you're never going to establish, you're never gonna establish a competitive advantage through the application of technology. You have a, an exceedingly small chance of ever doing that. I don't care how much you think you can master technology, at the end of the day it's not gonna happen.
personal point of view and stuff like this is a mote. I don't see, at least in these, chat bots that have come out, it's lifeless content, or it's just a simulation. it's impersonating an actual conversation, and I think that's gonna wear off with people because they're gonna
[00:31:53] Alex: It doesn't matter. I actually think it doesn't matter how good. The AI becomes a sounding human right, because we trade in stories. Stories is like one of the oldest currency in, humanity. And so when we hear something, the source is as important as the story, So even if, if the AI sounds like Hemingway or Madonna or whatever we want it to do, it doesn't matter because we will still seek out human stories, I think.
and I think that's good advice. You would, you would tell that to Buzzfeed then stop, stop investing in.
[00:32:24] Brian: for Microsoft this is not life or death and for Google this is. existential and they are trapped in with their interface because their interface is, is an at m machine.
I believe that was mentioned in your piece, Troy, not specific to this, but like that at m Machine is a millstone around their strategy, right? this is a pretty
classic dilemma.
[00:32:45] Troy: I think about you all the time around this and, and I thought about you when I, I sent that video around, which we'll talk about a little later in the podcast. you know what you have to do? You have to pursue excellence. in what you're making and excellence is defined by the needs, whims, feelings, emotions, et cetera of your audience.
And when you do it, the rewards will not come immediately. because, when you're pursuing excellence, I think the trade off is you're not pursuing some other distribution hack. What you're trying to do is make something that is unique to Your kind of presence on the planet as an individual, as a human being, and you're always trying to obviously sense where you see there's an opportunity, but I think that it just takes time.
And what happens is someone will discover it. and when someone discovers excellence, they share it and they talk about it. and I think that that's what it is. You've gotta do things that machines don't do and you have to pursue your excellence, and that will find a, a frequency match in the universe, or it won't, and you'll move on.
But I, I really think that, that, that's just, for me, it's an important principle because I actually don't give a shit. I don't want to. Audience for my newsletter. I write it because it's good for me. And I, and when I do write it, I try to make it good. from my perspective. it's incredibly gratifying when other people see it and say, Hey, there's something insightful in here that was useful to me.
and I, I just think that that's the path. If you wanna make my advice to a media person is what are you expert at? What is unique about you? What can you uniquely make? What do you love? to make and try to kind of obviously match that to what needs are on the market. But that, to me, that goes on forever.
[00:34:33] Alex: I mean, that's a great answer for it, but that answer could have been in the past. I can do stuff at scale that nobody else can. I can make a lot more of it
[00:34:40] Brian: Yeah, but that's over. that's
over.
a lot of these things are accelerations and look, the market has voted on the quote unquote scale era of media, digital media, at least that it's not going well. so I don't think anyone, I still see. You know, reports of people like Jimmy Finklestein saying he is gonna start like a massive global news brand.
No, not one mention about how it's gonna be different or why this thing is needed. I think what we'll see is a lot of flailing around, right? The, we'll see people revive, remember the courts chatbot, like they changed their site to be at actual chatbot. We'll see people try to impersonate the experience of chat g p T and if it's gonna. Probably bad
[00:35:22] Troy: disagree with that.
[00:35:24] Brian: Okay. Good.
[00:35:25] Troy: you know, uh, hats off to courts for trying to change the interface point information and the way they did it. And I think they introduced some new ideas into the market. But that's not the point. The point is, is what you're gonna find is people that use.
automation and AI to create new things that we have never seen. And it's happening in porn. It's happening in gaming. It's gonna happen, all over the place in media, and there's gonna be new hybrid formats and AI powered creators like I am I could never. The quality of, supporting art for my newsletter, like I can now without.
[00:36:03] Brian: You love your bear. I appreciate that about you, Troy.
[00:36:06] Troy: it just is an example of, to get that result, I have to twist and turn the machine in a certain way and I have to use my taste and my point of view to try to come up with something that's unique, Like it or not. That's what it is. And, and so that's, I just think a very simplistic example of using, otherwise I would have to call Alex to make me art for my thing and he won't do it anymore cuz he's too.
[00:36:28] Brian: I think like people will, will copy the interface, but I think it is going to change people's expectations of media being more conversational to some degree. And, and that is like more of a way you approach media. Like I think we're coming out of. A time when everyone pretended to have the answer.
And I think when you look at like why the popularity of some say podcasts, even Joe Rogan is because, he takes the approach that he's looking for like answers in some ways. And I know that you know, there's a lot of anti Joe Rogan stuff, but there has to be, you should deconstruct things about why they're popular at particular times.
And I think that, I think about like our. Thread that we have that goes, on through the week that culminates in the show, or maybe it doesn't. I have no idea. that to me is a, is a very interesting and valuable piece of media and I think when I think about what will have e mote in, in this kind of era, it'll be more like that in some way.
I don't know how it gets executed, quote unquote at scale.
[00:37:25] Alex: first of all, anyone who claims to know how the future's gonna pan out is lying. So I'm not, I'm not claiming that, but I don't
know
if the Right, well, yes. I don't know if the right path forward is for everybody to look at this interface, right. To bring it back to interface of chat and say everything is that mode now.
And I worry that media companies are gonna start doing that. They're gonna end up with interfaces are. easy to bypass because Apple just needs to make their own. And then I'm never gonna chat to the New York Times chat bot. I actually feel that if you're a media company, and that goes to Troy's point as well.
And to your point, just make something really, well actually go back. , read the article, have beautiful photography, beautiful typography, make it something that is enjoyable to read that is completely different to the chat interface that I'm using get me to think, to be in a different mode and appreciate the, that content, in a way where it feels like it needs to exist.
Otherwise you're just a, cheaper, less fast. Copy of what exists within Google or Apple or whoever's, moving into ai.
[00:38:32] Brian: it's a hard way to win the shortcut way and the one that bets on scale and doing it better and cheaper. It's I, I have two pizza places here, like within two blocks of one another, Joe's Pizza, it's like famous worldwide. I think they have one in Tokyo or something, and they've got a line around the block and a, a slice of pizza is like 3 75.
And then there's another one that's like completely not popular, but it's near pace and they sell it at a dollar 50. And they both do well, but they're very different pizza places. I just think that doing things cheaper is gonna end up. Not being the way to win in this, you have to be efficient with lean media and infrastructure and stuff.
I just think that, the efficient approach to content is not gonna last very long.
[00:39:11] Alex:
[00:39:11] Brian: let's just go into good product
[00:39:13] Good product
[00:39:16] Brian: I don't know if we're gonna talk about the Super Bowl as a good product. I'll just say this, it was a good product. It was a good game. It was marred at the end by, not a quote unquote wrong call, but it was made at the wrong time in the wrong place.
I just wanna get that on the record. Troy, I know I owe you a hundred dollars even though you didn't send me a W nine. And, let's go on to good product. I just had to get that off my chest.
[00:39:38] Troy: I thought the halftime show with Rihanna was remarkable and I thought it was a terrific game, and I won a few hundred books, so that's pretty good. my, my kids all came over and my, and they had all their friends here, so, and they all cooked, which was amazing. So it was a really fun afternoon or evening.
that video that I, that we played a little earlier, highlighted something that I really do think, cuz I, I ate it yesterday in one of, Shout out to Willa who cooked a lot of the food yesterday. Made me a Hawaiian pizza. And, when I was a kid growing up in,
[00:40:07] Brian: after you. There's,
[00:40:08] Troy: no, when I growing up in Saskatchewan,
[00:40:10] Brian: oh God.
[00:40:11] Troy: pizzas were, were the thing for me.
[00:40:13] Brian: This does not surprise me having
never been to Saskatchewan. I doubt it as good. Pizza
[00:40:18] Troy: Oh, amazing Pizza. It's made by the Greeks, not, not by the Italians. And it's quite thick. It's very delicious. . Anyway, there's a place called Western Pizza and it's amazing. but, I wanted to say that Hawaiian Pizza's an extremely good product. Uh, I really like it a lot,
[00:40:32] Alex: with you, Troy. I'm with you.
[00:40:34] Brian: Oh, Jesus Christ. Alex, you're German. You guys put an egg on your pizza.
[00:40:37] Alex: I'm Austrian,
and I
don't even know if we eat pizza
[00:40:40] Troy: But you know, she made the pizza yesterday with fresh pineapple. Alexs, I'm just gonna ignore Brian. And, fresh pineapple in really good ham. And, she bought the pizz dough at a local pizzeria. It was delicious. Really
[00:40:52] Brian: I'm speaking for the audience here when I say that there's no room for Hawaiian pizza in the cannon of pizza,
[00:40:58] Troy: I think what you're gonna hear back from, from people is that a lot of people really like it.
Yeah.
a media item I was blown away by, maybe we can share this in the show notes. it's this video on YouTube called Dons, and I think it's a really good product
and it. it is incredible and it was made by a passionate, kind of self-directed individual and it's animation and it's got a great story.
do you know anything about this guy, Alex?
[00:41:26] Alex: No, no. Never heard of him before.
[00:41:28] Brian: can you explain it? That's .
I don't,
[00:41:30] Alex: No, you got, you can't explain it. You can't explain it. You just have to watch it. Docs LinkedIn, the show notes.
[00:41:36] Brian: All right. Read the show notes, everyone. cool.
[00:41:38] Outro
[00:41:38] Brian: Thank you all for listening. we will be back next week with a new episode. And just a reminder, do leave a, uh, rating and review helps people find this podcast, and, uh, it reminds us. Humans are listening.
[00:41:49] Troy: I was delighted to have an ODE to Canada.
[00:41:51] Brian: it's basically acknowledges Canada's rightful place in culture and sport.
[00:41:57] Troy: it's hosted by Dave Grohl. It's is kind of funny. Who's not Canadian, I don't think,
[00:42:01] Alex: Dave Gro thanking Canada for inventing all these cool things.
[00:42:05] Troy:
[00:42:05] Brian: No Blackberry. That's weird.
[00:42:08] Brian:


PVA S1E24
PVA S1E24
[00:00:00] Brian:
[00:00:00] Troy: Okay. Good morning, Alex. How are you today?
[00:00:02] Alex: I'm good. I've got a cold
[00:00:03] Troy: I thought you
really hit your, stride in the last podcast, Alex.
[00:00:07] Alex: Yeah, I
[00:00:08] Brian: This is the flu episode.
it always drove me nuts when people came to the office. Sick. Even pre covid. I, I felt like redeemed by Covid.
[00:00:14] Alex: now I actually wear a mask. when I'm going go somewhere wearing, there's gonna be sick people.
[00:00:19] Brian: That's why I'm going to Miami on Tuesday There's no mask. There's thongs and massless people everywhere.
[00:00:46] Intro Start
[00:00:46] Brian: Welcome to People Versus Algorithms, a show about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Morrisey. I write the Rebooting Newsletter, and I'm joined each week by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young, writer of the People Versus Algorithms Newsletter. And Alex Schleifer, former head of Design at Airbnb and founder of Universal Entities.
This. we're discussing second order impacts. In general, we as humans are not great at seeing second order impacts of decisions. Part of the problem, It is because how things turn out is often frustratingly outside of our control and more often than not, quite different than we expected. I would argue. The media business for the past decade plus has been living at the mercy of decisions made by technology companies.
Running a publishing business has been not unlike being a protagonist in a zombie movie. You just deal with whatever comes at you as best you can. The current second order impacts publishers are facing, appear dire and arguably more complex than ever. Tech has grown to such a powerful force that we are in the midst of a very big societal conversation about how much power technology companies have and whether and how to curtail that power.
that conversation is happening through regulation. Legislation, an inherently messy process that tends to drive business people nuts, but also seems preferable to violence in organizing the society. But just consider two areas of focus right now, consumer privacy and ai. Now the move to reign in the use of consumer data and the hodgepodge of regulations that have sprung up after the implementation of GDPR in 2016 are still being felt.
I think it's too early to say exactly the impact any of these regulations have had, and I understand the skepticism that Troy has as far as GDPR goes, and I think the hand ringing over AI is gonna lead to. An amazing number of second order impacts for publishers that we're just beginning to contemplate.
but it's also yet another reminder, and it's a frustrating one that publishers have of the many ways that they have lost control of their businesses. it is hard to diligently work towards a stable and sustainable business model. And the ground beneath you continues to shift and sometimes open up and sets loose hoards of ravenous zombies.
This week we discussed the second order effects of the media business arising from these twin external develop. Privacy regulations and the explosion of AI tools. Next week, we'll contemplate the changing nature of creativity in the face of great change coming, not just to distribution and monetization, but now to the actual creation process.
I think it is actually gonna be a, a positive, but, you know, we'll get to that next week. Optimism. We'll have to wait for one more week. you to everyone who has left a, uh, rating and review of this podcast. I really appreciate it. thank you in particular this week to Dylan Bowman, who gave the show five stars and said, As a new media founder with no relevant experience, I've learned a ton from this show and the rebooting.
thank you very much, Dylan, especially since you gave a shout out to the rebooting show, which you should all tune into. every week I interview someone who's operating a sustainable media business, and I hope you enjoy this week's episode.
[00:03:45] Intro End
[00:03:45] Brian: Troy, isn't this a big change in that you try to operate a business where a lot of, of what is happening is being done to your business, just sort of by accident in some ways.
[00:03:56] Troy: it's sort of like publishing sadly is a bit of a kind of perpetual hackathon, you know, you're always looking for the next vein in this kind of pop mark drug addict arm to try to find like an, a new source of revenue. you know, I thought about it a couple of times this week.
I thought about it when I saw this fe thing.they had to take a 30 million lifeline to keep the business going. And I remember seeing there, there was a bunch of creditors that appeared in the list that hadn't been paid. And one of them was this company. I think I met the guy before.
anyway, it just made me think, oh my God, this is what digital media is, because Vice owes him money, presumably because as a way to get reach on a campaign or distribute their videos or something.
They had done a deal with Ranker to buy unnatural distribution to satisfy a and ended up owing. Him money, his site, you know, is a bit of a hack of sorts. I mean, I think it provides a service to people that wanna
[00:04:52] Brian: Are you coming after Ranker this
early
[00:04:54] Troy: I'm not coming after Ranker.
It's, it's got nothing to do with Ranker. It's sort of like the desperation of publishers looking for a way to make money, have to do deals with companies like Ranker and then end up Boeing. The money is just one in a long line of stories in publishing about the dance you have to do to make money. And then it got me going if you. Ranker is a thing where you rank shit.
[00:05:13] Brian: see, I like straightforward branding. You know, like in Miami they do this, like the pizza place is called. I Love pizza. The liquor store is called I Love Liquors. The brunch place is called, I Love Brunch Rankers about
[00:05:23] Alex: I had a startup. That I did when I was very young. I don't know if you know it right? It was called List Sticky, and it was about making, it was about making lists. It's essentially a ranker.
Yeah. That
would've made me
[00:05:34] Brian: Benson in a different life. You would be Clark
[00:05:36] Troy: Okay.
[00:05:36] Alex: oh my God. Okay,
[00:05:37] Troy: But you know what it got me thinking about, just to bring the conversation back to second order consequences and all that stuff. it was, uh, my wife's birthday last week and I went to a, a shop in Soho to buy her a gift and This always happens in retail, particularly kind of personal, fancy swaggy uh, retail.
They ask you for your name so they can look up your, your profile in their database and look at your purchase history and all that stuff. it always annoys me for some reason. I, I just wanna buy a sweater. I, I don't want to be profiled
[00:06:09] Brian: this says male energy, severe male energy,
[00:06:12] Troy: Oh, so be it. And I was, you know, there were these young hip kids and I started going into this rant, not like crazy person rant, but like a little bit of an, it was partly an internal dialogue and partly external, but it was like, you have my name, my address, my credit card information, my email, like literally you could completely dissect my life if you were even mildly enterprising.
And I, I don't really care, but it's annoying to me. And yet we're worried through this. Crazy set of legislation that started in Europe around 2011 that ended up in gdpr. Were worried about cookies and the violation of privacy that are cookies, and I just think that it's, it's. I, I did this crazy thing, which I think we could probably do on this podcast, is start to connect that ineptitude to what is about to become the next order of ineptitude around AI and regulation around ai.
And platform policy around AI because here's really what happened with gdpr. A bunch of fucking websites and commerce companies had to put buttons on their sites that consumers don't understand. That involves some illusion of a trade off around you, giving people consent to use your data and.
I don't think that there's a person on the planet that ever reads any of the small text and just clicks the button to get it out of their way. Literally the most ridiculous, stupid policy I've ever seen. And that cluttered, interfaces that were already too cluttered. But just let me go, please. Uh, cuz I'm ranting now.
Uh, uh and then, and then what it. Is it created a whole new expense line for publishers that had to navigate this thing. Introduced yet another new sort of, tape worm of a category called consent management platforms that then got in between you and your customer and tried to build like ad networks off the consent management, or at least data brokerages off of that.
And then what I think it even did beyond that. It. It hastened the development of retail media because God damn it, the only thing that you have as a publisher in a modern kind of performance marketing setting was an ability to turn low value impressions into high value impressions by moving data from one place, say the signal of you visiting a commerce.
To your presence on a publishing property that was largely called, for the, for just purposes of this conversation. It's called retargeting, and now that was under siege because, oh God, we can't use the cookie to retarget someone. Oh my God. That's a violation of privacy, which then I think advantaged retail networks, who could then more clearly in a first party manner take your data and sell it to the marketplace and take all of the kind of intent money in, in the internet.
really letting the air out of the online advertising balloon, which has resulted in a lot of chaos.
[00:09:15] Brian: Wow, that's a lot. Uh, . that was a great opening statement. Alex, I wanna get to you because you're the resident European, and this is a European thing. you guys foisted us on this on, on a, on the rest of the world, mostly because you lost completely like a generational big L in technology.
And so Europe does what Europe does best, which is regulate regulatory. Superpower comes muscling. in With some impenetrable, I mean, these are the people who brought us the, A key commutator. So it's , it's unsurprising that, uh, they would regulate in this manner. are you opposed to the actual purpose of these privacy regulations?
Because, I think there are. I don't wanna say extremists. A lot of people are saying extremists. There, there are people who take the position that are, is completely laissez-faire and that there is no problem with privacy, at least when it comes to, the provision of digital advertising.
That this is all a tempest in a teapot at best.
[00:10:10] Alex: Are you asking me?
[00:10:11] Brian: Uh, either
[00:10:12] Alex: asking the resident European? If I'm,
[00:10:15] Brian: Well, let, let me go to Troy. Let me go to Troy because I don't, I, I think Troy laid out a very good
case on specifics.
[00:10:21] Alex: Troy might need to catch a breath. Let me just talk
about
[00:10:23] Brian: true. That's true. He got, he got pretty heated
[00:10:25] Alex: And I have a cold, so I'm not gonna be talking as much. But I wanna, I wanna get this outta the way. I think GDPR is, is a good idea with a bad execution. it kind of promotes a bad ux and it, it benefits people who have dark patterns. So the more complicated that form is, the more people go to Yeah, whatever.
Fucking just take my data right click. So what's created like it's internet, web, even worse, and I never forgive for that, was I was wondering is Why did they put that burden on all the businesses and all the small businesses rather than putting it into the browser? Does anybody know that?
It always baffled me.
because the browsers wouldn't, wouldn't succumb.
you think that's it?
[00:11:03] Troy: Yeah, of course you have to do it through the browser. It's the only way to do it. You have to either do it through the browser or the os, but they couldn't, I mean, Yeah, you have to do it at one of those levers layers, and they couldn't push Apple around and they couldn't push Google around, so they just, created a bunch of legislation that hoodwinked all the poor publishers and commerce companies to put the stupid authentication mechanism on top of websites.
That's what happened.
[00:11:28] Alex: it's a disaster.
[00:11:29] Brian: So Troy, would you be in favor of this if the burden was shifted to, the people who actually own the browsers and can
[00:11:35] Troy: I don't think cookies are a problem, quite frankly. Cookies are fine, and if you wanna dump your cookie, dump your. cookie Or if you want to create a better mechanism for people to understand what's in their cookie and dump their cookie, then do that. But you know, the act of anonymously following someone with a little file on your computer, that makes the internet a whole lot better from a service perspective, from an ad targeting perspective, from a utility perspective, it makes a lot of sense.
And now, look what we did. we created flock. Flock as a replacement.
[00:12:03] Brian: What is that? Federated, federated learning something. Cohorts fe federated. I, I used to have to edit these
stories on flock. I, would, zone out in the middle of, of editing
[00:12:13] Troy: but some mechanism that basically, once again, concentrated all the power with the owner of that touchpoint, right? Because all the segmentation data was gonna be owned by Google in a way, by the way, that consumers had no idea how they got in a segment or what to do about it.
And that replaced the humble little cookie, and that was the solution because a bunch of European regulators that didn't understand the internet set out to fix it,
and it's about
to happen again.
[00:12:40] Brian: You sound like Randall Rothenberg here.
[00:12:42] Troy: bless Randall Rothenberg. I love that guy.
[00:12:45] Brian: He would always, he would always get up on like his soapbox. you ever see that meme of the guy who's like sitting at a cart table and is like,Prove me wrong or whatever. I think that was ran. I was like, cookies are great. Prove me wrong. Democracy will end.
Weirdly. Democracy didn't
[00:12:58] Troy: I find that guy very, he's really thoughtful and I was the chairman of the I E B and I got to know him really well
[00:13:04] Brian: Oh, so you're, you've got a dog in this fight because here's my quick little take on on gdpr, the industry never took privacy seriously. They never even thought it should exist. They always really subscribe to, and the mainstream thinking was, privacy is dead.
Get over it. I think, I forget who either said that, probably Winston Churchill. Because of that and because of, of this overly complicated system that was architected and it was architected for a reason and it provided plausible deniability to all kinds of characters, scarless and otherwise, that people lost trust.
we talk a lot about trust, so yeah, the, the humble cookie, like who, who did the cookie harm? The problem really comes back to trust. there are too many middlemen that exist in, in this ecosystem. there's a lot of people who have been collecting a lot of data,
that do not have a relationship with the consumers. So I feel for publishers that have been caught up in this, and particularly the long, smaller publishers, et cetera,
[00:14:01] Troy: Hey, hey, Brian. What was the consequence of all of that? What? What happened? To the consumer and to the, the sort of principle players in the ecosystem
[00:14:10] Brian: Of what?
[00:14:10] Troy: of gdp.
[00:14:11] Brian: Oh, the biggest impact to me that GDPR has had tangible impact outside of, moving some pieces around. the board has been that it forced an industry to actually. Take privacy, quote unquote seriously. I don't think they truly have. If you listen to what the i e B is going on about now.
even post Randall, it's still in denial if you ask me, because I think for years I've, I have talked, let me just finish what I've talked about privacy with people in this industry. They've said basically two things, and this is over like 15 years. They said the direct mail guys are sketchier and we don't use pi. And that they repeated that for a decade and they never took self-regulation, personally identifiable information. So they parse the idea that it's personal information in some legalistic definition of what is personal That doesn't line up with what a lot of normal people consider personal information.
And because of that, it created a system where if I ask. people In a room of advertisers, how many of you think that Facebook is listening to you through the phone? A majority of hands go up. These are the sophisticated people in advertising. There's a trust issue. I think that's the root problem.
[00:15:22] Troy: the sort of race to accumulate cookies, transitioned to a race to accumulate e email addresses, and to create. barriers, fake or otherwise, to acc accessing information on the internet and a whole underground trade in swapping email addresses that opened up more user information to the people in the middle and did nothing to ultimately protect your privacy.
I just think it was entirely and utterly ineffective. I
[00:15:51] Brian: too. It's still too early. It's still too early to say.
[00:15:53] Troy: Really it,
I
I, it's not too early to say, and here's why, because I think that it contributed to the demise of digital media, and it is today.
[00:16:03] Brian: Okay.
You came
[00:16:04] Troy: harder and harder and harder to make a buck off of online advertising on account of the collapse of the mechanism that created value in and around the impression That was the result of all of this legislation, and what you're seeing is the fallout.
Now you're seeing companies that can't stay in business. You're seeing job loss, you're seeing all the, now obviously you can't draw a straight line between these two things, but it's just not getting.
And it's about to get a whole lot harder because I think we should open the next chapter of this,
[00:16:34] Brian: but wait, the, the batter a, the batter ad business was just going gangbusters. So let's, let's remember that, it like hasten the demise of a form of digital media that, frankly was pretty tired and,
[00:16:46] Alex: I agree with you, but I, I think the. The business was eating itself already. Like that, thing was unsustainable and to Brian's trust comment. I think people stopped trusting these things and so it left an opening for, Well meaning, but like totally incompetent, bureaucrats to make up a set of rules that broke everything, but the thing was already broken. and there's that, SEO loop with massive ad networks and the fucking tabula links and uhers and, uh, things that send you into a list and not being able to find information.
Everybody was getting sick and fucking tired of the internet. So, yes, I'm sorry. Destroyed advertising, but also fuck advertising for destroying the internet. you know, it was one parasite eating another parasite and , and maybe it's cause I still remember, early, early two thousands, late nineties, internet full of and useful energy before it was.
Stuck full of these fucking the last of Aus growing out. Its face, fine, we unleashed a bunch of lizards to the mushroom, the selling mushrooms.
[00:17:52] Brian: I just wanna state again, for the record, I don't know how Ranker got pulled into all of this. I'll give you a chance to respond. Troy. Poor ranker. What are, they're just ranking
[00:18:01] Troy: I just feel like we're about to see it happen all over again. And this time it's more profound. Brian
[00:18:08] Brian: Well, I know because this has societal bigger societal implications than the cookie
[00:18:12] Troy: the cookie, listen, I spent the weekend reading. All of the AI stuff, I couldn't even produce an email because if I, I wanted to talk about ai, but I didn't want to compete with all the nonsense out there. So I needed to really digest it all and really try to come up with a point of view.
And the obvious starting point for this is that I still believe, I won't get caught upin, in the kind of oh my God, look what we got the AI robot to say. When we pushed it into the semantic corner like Ben Thompson did or Russ at the New York Times, it's like you can't really QA the thing that has that many use cases.
My little cute example is my parents tried to QA me for like12 years and they didn't get all the Coron cases. but uh, . I'm just gonna pause for a minute, .
So anyway, yeah, that was good. Thank you. But
anyway,
[00:19:02] Alex: was very good.
[00:19:03] Troy: we're now sensing the opportunity to kind of carve our place in this new frontier.
And Bing releases, Microsoft releases, an AI bot that's not quite thought through like it ever will be because it's, it's unpredictable. Then they start to contain the number of queries at five so that you don't pin it down with your questions. It's kind of humorous, all of it, all of that.
But here's. , I would start with the idea that this isn't going to put, just put more pressure downstream from search engines is
ludicrous. Okay? So listen, old search is as follows, query and response. The query is what you type into the search engine. The response is a. Now, the most lucrative of that because we robbed the internet of all of its cookie based intent data, the most lucrative of that, of those queries are affiliate based queries, I want a tv, I give you a well formatted page on Tom's Guide or CNET or whatever to tell you what TV to buy. So that's the most lucrative use case on the internet. now what we're about to do is shit can the whole thing, because we're gonna suck that response into the engine. And what Microsoft is saying, and I think with good intent because they're so excited about the opportunity of this new frontier where they could actually compete with Google is they're saying, don't worry about it.
We'll put citations and links in this. We will crossbreed, like some incestuous shithole, we will cross breed search and so your responses are, hyperlinked and we have these citations. And don't worry providers of information that support a, a commercial query. Don't worry, we are gonna still get traffick to you.
And guess what? It's just not gonna happen.
[00:20:57] Brian: Yeah, but it's also ancillary, right? I think like what
you know. Well, the point of all of this is for Microsoft to bleed. Google's cash cow, right? I, I mean for years. And that's why I think it's a second order impact in that. publishers to me have for over a decade, been like, I always compare them to the villagers and like Game of Thrones, you've got different houses that decide to go to war.
The Starks against like Sinisters and all these. Poor villagers, you know, they're never really focused on in the stories, but they're the ones who are getting lit on fire Whereas the real action, it's just these houses going up against each other. And so I think we'll end up seeing that.
and publishers unfortunately will get caught, in the crossfire because this is about Google trying to go after the gross margins of search business that sustain Google and. At the end of the day, if others die because of that, they're gonna die because
of it
[00:21:49] Troy: Yeah, it's just, it's kind of sad to me, and maybe I shouldn't be saddened by it, because as you would say, Brian, the market will respond and find new nooks and crannies to monetize. And, you know, enterprising individual creators will make beautiful, soulful things and people will appreciate them and all of that.
But here's the thing, we put a new layer on information with search and social and the internet forces this kind of consolidation of access points onto information. And it happened the first time, and what it did is it marginalized content creators and took away distribution power from them.
That happened the first time, and it's about to happen All. Again, and this time the results will be, more pernicious and more profound because, you can look at, I don't care whether AI is sentient or not, or on its way to being sentient, or whether it cannot absorb symbolic logic such that it feels like common sense and is just this photocopy of reality.
by the way, thatbrilliant, new Yorker article, which you should all read, kind of outlined. But what it really is, is it's automation and as such, it's adding a layer of automation to this interface point that we discussed last week that is only going to continue to shift power from creators of content to owners of access points.
And in that, just like what happened, the gdpr, it's going to favor the people that can manage those access points most ably And it's going to just have negative downstream effects on the creators of content
[00:23:27] Brian: Yeah, so it's not a new story, it's just a new chapter to the same
story.
[00:23:30] Alex: Well, the story has been that. Media and technology have had This romance and technology keeps breaking. Media's heart, and media keeps falling back in love with technology, and then technology takes another piece away from it. But isn't the case, Troy? I media sometimes difficult To wrap my head around is, media the definition of a company that owns, a little bit content creation, distribution, and, advertising and monetization around it? Is that how you would define a media company? I know that's like a
[00:24:00] Troy: a good,
[00:24:01] Alex: question.
[00:24:01] Troy: that we should actually turn that into a, a feature of the podcast, baby.
[00:24:06] Brian: is it? Media? Oh no, I thought, is it.
I think one of the second order impacts actually of AI is going to be that technology companies are gonna have to stop claiming that they're not media companies because they're creating content, they're using robots to create content and they can't hide behind the fact that, oh, we don't create content, we just point to content.
No, no, no, no. You're absolutely a cra. It was always
[00:24:28] Troy: well if, if for sure is gonna create new dimensions to the policy battle around, uh,
[00:24:33] Brian: Yeah. Section two 30 and all I look at it as very exciting cuz there's
gonna be
so much shit to write about
[00:24:39] Alex: nobody's gonna pay you for
it though. That's the problem.
[00:24:41] Brian: Yeah. That's the, well, that's the second order impact I haven't gotten to
[00:24:44] Alex: Brian's excited about writing free content for the machines. Sorry,
[00:24:49] Brian: Absolutely.
[00:24:50] Troy: Well, Alex, you had a baby question.
[00:24:52] Alex: So, so my baby question was, we're looking at the, the impact of, this new phase of technology on media once again. and I'm wondering if it is maybe the end of the media company where there are only going to be people who create content and then the platforms that. surface it to users.
And it might also be the end of the traditional advertising models where that doesn't make any sense anymore. I think we're just seeing the end of it. This might be the end of the traditional media company, and media as a term. Because at the end of the day, I don't think there's an analog, but I'm trying to find one.
maybe it's just the end of that model where there's this. Spin wheel effect of, you find people making content and then you put them on a platform and then because you're the one that could afford the printing press and then you, the the CMS then afford whatever right.
Now Who
Needs those.
guys
[00:25:43] Troy: Well, first of all, I just need to state the obvious. Brian, that doesn't feel like a baby question to me.
[00:25:48] Brian: Ah, he turned that on you. I mean, there's a good case to be made that a lot of the functions of That you needed to be a publisher have now been like, taken away. and in some ways, to me that's why it can be li liberating cuz you see, I think a lot of the second order stuff that people are going to with this AI is actually fourth and fifth order.
And it goes to, are they gonna take over? Is it sent in? Can we get it to say that the Holocaust didn't exist and stuff like that. I, I think that's in some
ways a little silly and cheap,
[00:26:16] Alex: You
to do all sorts of
[00:26:18] Brian: yeah.
[00:26:19] Alex: them in the
wrong.
[00:26:20] Troy: Can I
ask a baby question of my own?
[00:26:21] Brian: Yeah.
[00:26:22] Troy: I was at a party on Saturday night. And, there was this great woman who was there who was asking me some media questions, baby media questions, and, she was a celebrity from HGTV who had, her own brand and, trust with her audience.
And is, was really just kind of a creative person, like wanted to make. And so she and this other friend of mine had endeavored to make some packaged media in the form of a printed thing, a very beautiful printed thing. And they said to me, you know, what do we do now? What do we do? We got this cool idea.
You know, people know us. We have lots of taste, we have a kind of a magazine thing. what do we do to make our dreams come true? We need to create a me media. What would your response be to them? To that baby question. Brian,
[00:27:12] Brian: Don't do it
[00:27:12] Alex: Well, that can't be a response though.
Can we set a ground for our podcast that we something.
[00:27:20] Brian: Well, I don't think it's a good idea to create a media business. That was the thing. So like why do you have to, so before, I think just to go on what you were saying, Alex, was that in order to be. in media, you needed to create a, a media business, and that meant all sorts of different things and infrastructure and stuff.
There is a different path now that I think is interesting. I don't think, I think there's gonna be in between, but that you don't need to build up all of that. she doesn't need to build an entire infrastructure of a media business to be in media. We see so many people.
The most powerful media entities are that are being developed are not quote unquote traditional media
businesses.
[00:27:57] Alex: So just focus on, the creation of the content
the idea of pursuing a print magazine product. Now, I don't mean to say don't do it. go ahead do it. I hope you have another source of income, though. It's not a business.
[00:28:09] Troy: after I say that, then what do I say?
[00:28:11] Brian: What is the value that is being created here and how can you capture some of that value? I think the idea of creating a packaged product like a magazine, particularly around food or lifestyle, I think is probably not going to be a very sustainable endeavor
[00:28:27] Troy: So let's, maybe we just start just for fun to kind of lay out quickly what her options would be.
[00:28:33] Brian: Okay.
[00:28:34] Troy: So option one would be to make the publication so deliriously good. That somewhere north of 20,000 people would pay a hundred bucks a year for it. For a quarterly publication, let's say keep the printing run very low.
keep the product very premium, and then endeavor from there to go out and build your brand. Option two, get TV production deals. Create lots of content on the, platforms that matter and try to become. a notable for your voice inside of that lifestyle industry that you're pursuing.
And then option three would be to create a commerce extension of this. So you were selling draperies and pillows in olive oil and sofas and shit at a high enough gross margin that you could afford to do all the things that you need to do, like advertise and do fulfillment and build. So, those are kind of your choices, I guess, right?
[00:29:29] Brian: Yeah. I mean you can create I guess my point is that like you need to figure out a business that is, different than the media product itself. , I think when you're looking at these lifestyle categories, it seems to me pretty obvious that all of them, the fate outside of the SEO stuff, and even then they're a front end for a di for an affiliate business, is that the media product itself is the front end for a different business.
Like whether that's selling pots and pans, you know, whether that's,
[00:29:54] Troy: Can, can I ask you why?
Yeah.
[00:29:56] Brian: because it's ex, the, the economics just simply don't work for like a print magazine product
[00:30:01] Troy: Printed Digital magazine, print magazine, email newsletter, you know, video series.
[00:30:07] Brian: because you're not gonna get enough people to pay you. And it's either you get pe the audience to pay or you get advertisers to pay. And Advertising as a model is, obviously we talk about it all the time. This is incredibly c. There's just so many choices out there for advertisers.
Why would they spend money on this versus retail media? I mean, some will spend some on it, but it's not a very, I don't see a lot of people starting magazines that,you can be super niche possibly, but usually it's the front end to a different business.
[00:30:34] Troy: So that whole category's just gone goodbye.
[00:30:37] Brian: No, I just think it change.
[00:30:38] Alex: Well, I'll be fine. The category you mean the home
category? What? What?
What?
do you mean?
[00:30:41] Troy: I mean the category of creating content that might sit somewhere between a high value subscription proposition and something that people are mildly interested in that delivers content against an enthusiast category or some type of broad lifestyle category, or even news for that matter.
either it has a density and and value proposition to become subscription or it's silver. You have to find a new gig
[00:31:07] Alex: Yeah, I think maybe any type of content that is created essentially to position add itself. Advertising specifically is.
[00:31:16] Troy: I just wanted to articulate the finality of this conversation, so it's good. We can now set that up as a sort of precept for the whole podcast that that type of media is dead.
[00:31:26] Alex: Yeah, but it's, it's hard to tell because I was watching this video, which we'll put in the show notes, by this, I think British guy. he's called Tom Scott, he was talking about, AI and the sigmoid curve, the sigmoid curve being, where you are in the technology curve and whether or not ai, if it's at the end of its curve right now, what we're seeing, what I, this is a cool thing and it'll change search and there will be second order effects, but things won't change dramatically.
If it's in the middle of the curve. It's wow, we still got a lot. changes coming our way. If it's at the beginning of its curve, we have no idea what the fuck's gonna happen. umactually, what happens when you. Give a tool to everyone in the chain, including people who are in the business of inventing ad product in the business of building platforms, coders, designers, publishers, content makers.
when you give them a set of technologies that their ability to make stuff like Brian, right now, you as a single person could run. Technically, if we set it up, like if you and I sit down for a week and we set it up, Put together, you know, you'll have a research team that's ai, you'll have a bunch of editors at ai, you can be a one person, small media company overnight.
Right. And I dunno what that changes. Maybe, you can write seven newsletters instead of one. and I don't know how the ad people specifically Google and, folks at bay. Create new advertising products that completely change the game and insert advertising into the conversation channels.
I
[00:32:53] Brian: Do you know what I think we're gonna end up seeing on that? This is sort of like an aside. Do you remember Vibrant Media? Troy, you do. They were an an ad network that would scan, text and do the double green underlines under like keywords. So they were bringing
search ads. Yeah, they were, it was like early, oh, you know, search is the only basically like ad format that is like really working on the internet.
We're gonna bring this to all these under monetized pages and we're gonna create new inventory because when you, like accidentally mouse over, Ford truck in like an article, all of a sudden would pop up, a video for Ford Truck. and, and, they quickly became like a scourge. I remember , like some people felt really strongly.
I think we're actually gonna see a return of the, of the double green underline I'm I'm ready for it.
[00:33:39] Alex: I dunno, I wonder because now we're like in this kind arms race between a bunch of tech child, I think there's going to be the scorched earth policy to build the best product that people wanna use, even though it, kills the advertising revenue and, and potentially kills relationships with publishers.
I think they're also hungry to take, you know, there's like a land grab happening, it might take a while for, for that experience to become shit, right? Which usually
[00:34:03] Brian: Oh, no, no, no. no. I think the ironclad role of digital media is that everything ends up becoming shit cuz it becomes overdone and becomes over-optimized. Right? I mean, the pop under add, would've been with us to this day if it didn't get shut down. Externally. So I, I always like that, always, I guess for me, like I always am, am reminded of that kind of stuff because, you know, inevitably anything that gets taken away out of the toolbox, the modernization toolbox, I've always heard all of the sky has falling stuff and the sky has never completely fallen.
[00:34:34] Alex: Let's look at it from the other side, right? So we're looking at distribution and advertising. I just think that there's going to be a lot of great content.
[00:34:42] Brian: Okay. I mean, Yes.
[00:34:45] Troy: what is, he's doing that thing
[00:34:47] Alex: So I have to move
[00:34:47] Troy: around.
[00:34:48] Alex: a second. I, I think
there's, lemme start again. Lemme start again. I think. Can you hear me ok?
[00:34:53] Brian: Yeah,
[00:34:53] Troy: Yeah, you gotta stop moving around cuz it's taxing your bandwidth.
[00:34:56] Alex: Alright. I think that there's just going to be more. Really, high quality content because people are going to have a lot of access to tools, a lot of access to resources, and, a lot more time to focus on creating these great things. And I think that's also going to create second order effects where there's just going to be more competition for great
[00:35:14] Brian: Yeah, but it.
[00:35:16] Alex: to be a ton of it.
[00:35:16] Brian: I'm gonna make a case here, Troy, that a lot of the things you're talking about here are basically publishers had a lot of unfair advantages that have been stripped away from them over decades at this point. And this is just the sort of like final stripping away of all of the unfair advantages that publishing businesses have had in the. market we've seen this that like competing, if you're in the lifestyle category, competing with creators and influencers has been a challenge. I mean, there's different economics and this accelerates that. Like I just see, like Alex was saying, with with these tools, you can see pretty clearly a pathway that there have been a lot of advantages, infrastructure advantages from publishers and media companies that are gonna be stripped. away part of me is well that's very exciting cuz I'm not sitting in a publishing business that needs to support that infrastructure.
[00:36:05] Troy: You know, it reminds me, I think you're probably right, but it reminds me, I maybe have shared this, on the podcast before, but I used to go to China and talk to the teams that, Oversaw like the L brand or the Bazaar brand. And China was an influencer economy in the media category long before, north America was.
they would say to me, through a translator, Troy, you know, what do we do about these influencers? Because, you know, they have more followers than us and, you know, luxury brands want to give them money and we're struggling to compete and, I would, try to be.
Thoughtful with me in my answer and give them, a reason to believe. And I would say, well, it looks like we just have to be far more influential and we have to embrace. The sort of influencer class by wrapping our brand around them. which has been a, I think, a response for companies in the publishing business, whether they built a platform to manage influencers or started to incorporate them into their content feeds or just, tried to be kind of native to the medium and be more flinch, be influential themselves.
It's all great, except that it's a war and you're never gonna win it because there's too many. I think that what history would say there is I was totally wrong or naive and that there was really no way to kind of hijack that segment of the content creator spectrum.
the influence and kind of bandwidth of your, media brand was just gonna a.
And until it became a hollow shit, shell for fucking affiliate.
[00:37:34] Brian: but the immediate response, that makes complete sense, right? mean, in, in the short term to medium term, publishers do still have an unfair advantage, right? They have an unfair advantage in that they have, they still have distribution. , but they also still have these relationships with brands and the trust within brands.
Right. So they can become, I think I called it in one newsletter, like a cultural general contractor where, you know, in the general contractors, they're, they're not coming in, they're not like doing like putting up the drywall and stuff like this, but they're bringing in others to do all that. And I, you see a lot of publishers becoming that, that general
[00:38:07] Troy: Yeah, that's what Brian Goldberg wants to become. We should have him on, by the way, I think he's, maybe
the, the smoke is cleared. You know, it's time for, to get Brian on here to talk
[00:38:17] Brian: Um,
[00:38:18] Troy: contracting.
[00:38:19] Brian: I was in the last of us last. I don't know if you guys are watching that, that show. Cause I think publishing is, is pretty much in that situation of you know, the zombies just keep coming, and, you know, you start to get used to it. I see what the characters are like.
Oh, okay. you know, as much as zombies are attacking us again. the guy was like, you know, people love contractors,
[00:38:34] Troy: It's true. That was last night. That was great.
[00:38:38] Brian: Because, Yeah.
the contractor comes in and you know, he or she, usually it's a, he is I got this under control. I got you . It's reassuring.
we're a little all
over the place this
[00:38:47] Troy: we were, we, we apologize because it was a little last minute, but Brian, before we do good product, where did we start and where did we end? I think that's important.
[00:38:55] Brian: well, we started with the second order impacts, and we talked about second order impacts of both privacy, but then also ai. And I think the big, to me, the big like takeaway if there is like a big takeaway is publishing is downstream of a lot of forces. Far powerful media in general are far powerful than the industry itself.
It's always been at the whims of the broader economy because of its dependent on advertising. And advertising is always the first to get cut in a downturn. But I think more than, There's just a lack of control of these businesses, right? Like an affiliate. I remember talking with you about this, like affiliate was one way that publishers felt like they got some control back of their businesses cuz they were able to control a lot of things with that.
And now that's getting taken away. So it's, you know, the zombies keep coming. . That's my big takeaway away,
[00:39:43] Troy: That's great. Thank you for that.
[00:39:44] Good Product
[00:39:44] Brian: Let's go into good product.
[00:39:48] Troy: in our haste to put this together, I hadn't really thought of a good product, though. I always do these days. I don't know about this one, but let's give it a shot. You know, it's funny, it's Monday the great thing about Mondays, unlike what the BoomTown Rats said years ago,
[00:40:02] Brian: Booms out rats.
[00:40:03] Troy: That one should not like them.
Is it Mondays? Like the subways are empty and
when
you,
[00:40:09] Brian: today, Troy.
[00:40:10] Troy: is it holiday?
[00:40:11] Brian: it's president's.
[00:40:12] Troy: Oh, right, right. We don't have that. We don't have presidents in Canada. Maybe I forgot that. Sorry. Anyway, there's no one in the office and I really do, I was reminded today that snacks in the office, which I feel like it's ending, snacks and they have these, reconstituted mango strips in, a nice little package.
And I really like them, but that's not my good product this week.
[00:40:31] Brian: Snacks in the
office is a good product though. I mean, they were, it was a good product. Former r I p.
[00:40:36] Troy: you know, one thing I really like on my block in Brooklyn is there were some houses that still have gas. Powered lamps in front of the, brownstones. And just immediately in front of the brownstone you'll have, a light but it's powered by gas.
It runs 24 7. And I'm led to believe that it actually is a small amount of, fuel that makes it run. But when you're walking down the. in the evening and there's houses lit by flame. It's very romantic and it makes you really appreciate your urban existence,
and I think that's a good product. I think more people should have those kinds of lamps in front of their houses.
[00:41:14] Brian: Yeah, I don't think that's gonna like work in like a decarbonize uh, economy.
It's unfortunate.
We gotta
sacrifice some things and you're gonna have to your
[00:41:23] Alex: Burning
fossil fuels
for cozy glow
[00:41:27] Troy: Okay.
[00:41:30] Alex: That's great. You know what I like to do? I just like to pour. Gasoline on the ground and just.
[00:41:35] Brian: you know what's a good product? Natural gas.
[00:41:39] Troy: feel like I failed there.
[00:41:40] Alex: No, you, you cannot, you can try, you can never fail a good product because it's a very personal,
[00:41:47] Brian: It's qualitative.
[00:41:48] Alex: personal choice.
Yeah. It's.
[00:41:50] Troy: before we end the section, do you have a good product, Alex, maybe a baby good product or something that you, that you've run across that, Tickled your fancy.
[00:41:58] Alex: I'm in LA right now and I think LA is a good product, often aligned. think it's
just this,
[00:42:03] Troy: no one has ever said that before. I, I like, I like, it's definitely not a good product. I like LA a lot, but I don't think it's
[00:42:09] Alex: I think it's, I think it's, kinda a beautiful mess of all the things. And there's this energy here that's a mixture of creativity and desperation, which, uh, kinda creates this whole energy And, the weather's great and the sunsets are amazing. And, as a kid who grew up watching Hollywood movies, it's kind of, you know, a, Massive Disney World full of references to culture and it feels like a cultural mecca.
I
[00:42:34] Brian: Classic
American city
let's leave it there on LA Natural Gas as our, uh, good products for the week.
[00:42:40] Outro
[00:42:40] Brian: all right guys.
Thanks so much for listening. We'll be back next week with a new episode.
[00:42:43] Troy: Thank you.
[00:42:44] Alex: All
right. Thank you.
[00:42:45] Troy: I like that. Remember when we used to make, Venn diagrams? I really like that. what was it? Desperation. intersecting
creativity. Hollywood is in the middle, or la is in the middle. I like that a lot.


PVA S1E25
PVA S1E25
[00:00:00] Troy: Nice to see you guys. Nice to see you. Brian. Are you in Miami?
[00:00:03] Brian: I am
[00:00:03] Troy: guys, I just wanted to reflect on something for a second. I didn't love it that the Ranker guy got really mad at me
But we had brought it up on the podcast and I wrote about it and I wanted just to reflect on what I learned for a second
[00:00:17] Alex: Right.
[00:00:17] Troy: because it's, I'll, of stand behind most of what I said.
But I think that when you write something for people, you have to sometimes tame the impulse to. Cynical or dismissive or just not take other people's endeavors seriously enough. it's good to think about what they're gonna read into what you've written.
Now, I just wanted to, bring this up because I think it made a couple of points and, I think that what the very enterprising, I must say, c e o of rank anchor had to say was, listen, I built a business, it makes money and the people are, in the company, are extremely proud of it, as am I.
And I said, you should be. but. he didn't love that I called it non premium quote unquote. I put in quotes, and I think this is an interesting thing cuz we've talked about this for a while, the kind of what is premium on the internet,and it was kind of the point I was making that a seemingly premium millennial generational media brand had to take their video and put it on the non-premium, well, what I called non premium place to satisfy, an obligation to an advertiser.
when I think about what premium is, I think well premium either means some of the following. It means that the brand that is presenting the information does something or is perceived in a way that creates premium value for an advertiser. or for the people that read it, And it suggests that maybe the audience is premium or the experience is premium and ultimately that it sells for a premium either to an advertiser or a consumer. But the internet kind of dispensed with all of that, And it sort of said, well, if it's premium, it'll perform is premium premium, we used to think U G C was non premium, but now certainly U G C doesn't separate premium and non-premium cuz you could have premium U G C and a lot of people think, for example, Instagram is premium particularly in, you know, certain segments of that audience.
premium is a funny, old school media delineation that I don't think is super relevant anymore.
[00:02:17] Brian: Well, it's a sales, it's a sa, it's a sales tactic premium.
[00:02:20] Troy: yeah.
[00:02:21] Brian: when people keep waving the premium flag, that means don't measure us. That's my belief.
[00:02:25] Troy: and I had sort of called much of ranker, U g C, but a huge amount of it, or at least apparently the externally facing stuff is professionally created by their writers
[00:02:35] Brian: what Ranker does is no different than what every other premium quote unquote publisher does in the background. They just don't talk about it. Every single quote unquote, premium publisher has an SEO chop shop. They're just not as good at it. That's what
[00:02:48] Troy: right.
[00:02:48] Brian: That's why YouTube, like years ago, they started,we don't like to talk about premium content.
We talk about premium audiences. I was like, that's, that's a good line.
[00:02:55] Troy: the Ranker people built an efficient media machine, obviously, and they should be proud of that. And I presume that it, is valuable to an audience
[00:03:05] Brian: But look, a lot of like premium has always been used to charge more, It's like luxury, Luxury used to mean. Craft and you're getting higher quality. That's not true. In many cases, that is not true because it's, it's totally qualitative. what makes something luxury? there's a reason that Gucci doesn't say where the shit is made,
we had in media a pretty clear idea of what was premium and what wasn't. At least we
Were you, you on the maker side or those on the like buyer side or the audience side?
[00:03:32] Troy: public perception, certainly on the creator side and definitely on the media buying side.
[00:03:37] Alex: it looks like premium used to mean something, but now it means everything to everyone, so it doesn't mean anything. I don't think Ranker is a premium site. I think an iPhone is a premium phone while a $250, Android phone that you get at the back of a Verizon store isn't premium.
we kind of know what it means. It doesn't mean that it's bad. Ranker probably performs and does its job. But I wouldn't go to the Ranker party or wear the T-shirt,
[00:03:58] Brian: I would wear the Ranker t-shirt, I would wear it
[00:03:59] Troy: I think there's one on, on its way
[00:04:02] Alex: no . I mean, nobody said you were
[00:04:05] Brian: Clark send me the Clark . I have premium audiences. I, this is because I was thinking about this with lu luxury because, even though I do travel in comfort, plus I've been to a lot of luxury hotels in my life because all of dig days events were at these luxury properties.
And luxury hotel is such a scam. These places are terrible. They're almost all uniformly terrible. And I think mostly it's because Americans can't do luxury. when Americans think luxury, they think we're gonna just say good morning to you 15,000 times. the place that we're staying down here, it's a Mandarin Oriental.
you had to re-log into the wifi every 15 minutes, put in your credentials every 15 minutes. so you don't even think through the shower didn't work properly. Okay, 700 bucks a night. It was this weekend I checked. and the shower didn't even work properly.
An alarm goes off in the middle of the night it's all to me where luxury is gone as a stainless premium is it's just this excuse to charge more. And like they don't think through on a craft. Basis of like how this is an elevated experience.
[00:05:11] Troy: Well, they may have identified you as non-premium and gave you the commensurate
experience. But the, the, the
[00:05:17] Brian: be. But my
wife booked, the, room and she is in the premium
bucket,
[00:05:22] Troy: that,
she
[00:05:23] Brian: believe you should agree.
my wife will really appreciate me putting her in a premium bucket.
[00:05:27] Troy: is that Mandarin? The one in, Miami? Is that the one you're talking.
[00:05:30] Brian: Yeah, it's some Brickle key.
[00:05:32] Troy: Yeah. That place
[00:05:33] Brian: It's terrible. It's like the, the, the,
[00:05:35] Troy: You know what? Just go to other four seasons. They know what they're doing and the consistent and the experience is is uniformly good and uniformly consistent.
[00:05:43] Brian: the pool reminded me of Jeff Kirkland's pool when I was growing up on Poland. Drive more kids. That's about it.
[00:05:48] Alex: There's this type of premium that you just pay for, it's obviously not great. Have you seen those virtue phones? V E R
[00:05:55] Brian: Oh
[00:05:55] Troy: yeah.
They're, Yeah. Those, they're not around anymore.
[00:05:58] Alex: Do you know they're back with, uh, the meta virtue?
It's the first premium, crypto blockchain. And it goes from $3,600 for the baseline to, $36,000 for, one with some endangered species leather on the back of it.
and I do think there's a thing about that kind of premium nest that you get in certain hotels where you feel like, oh, this is just a racket, this is just a scam, to get people who made some money and don't know where to spend it.
but I also think Supreme is the same thing. All this stuff feels,
[00:06:26] Brian: but it's also, it's an American thing I do believe, because like luxury is a European and it's done well, in a, by a lot of Asian countries. But American luxury is, is an oxymoron. We shouldn't even try to do it. We do supply chains. We used to do supply chains. Well, we do indoor plumbing extremely well.
We do
capitalism. Amazingly.
[00:06:45] Alex: there is like hotels in
the deserts and in Utah or something like that. I, I think America can do luxury well, now if you want, I mean if you wanna see a lot of virtual phones, you should travel to Dubai. That's what you'll
[00:06:57] Brian: It's virtue.
You gotta get the,
[00:07:00] Alex: yeah.
[00:07:00] Brian: so I once saw like a virtue. It didn't even take pho, it couldn't take photos. Was like, you have a photo. You're not like taking like selfie.
[00:07:09] Alex: No, no. Somebody else's
[00:07:10] Brian: Yeah.
[00:07:11] Alex: well, I mean, I guess, I guess, I guess that's the topic. that's
[00:07:14] Brian: could talk this all day. Cause it's been very much on my mind.
[00:07:18] Alex: I mean, premium is an interesting idea, I guess. Still don't get supreme
[00:07:21] Brian: I wrote months ago, like about signaling premium. And I think it's really difficult to do because, and I think that's why quote unquote premium publishing and media brands are suffering now is because all of the little hand waving and the tricks that they could do with, the hef of the pages and glossy photos and stuff has been taken away from them.
and particularly when you're in feeds, you get, all that stuff gets stripped away and everything is kind of, really hard. To fight for the, that kind of premium. When you take out, if you take like a Vogue article and put it on web, is that premium
anymore?
[00:07:55] Troy: we tried for a while with formatting image size. the ultimate premium on the web is a modesty of ad placement.
[00:08:02] Alex: Yes,
Yes,
[00:08:04] Brian: Modest.
[00:08:05] Alex: Alex,
[00:08:07] Troy: A, Alex and I tr tried to create a premium construct a long time ago called the Clean Campaign, where we would limit the number of the, the number of ads that you placed on the site.
And I thought that was the right way to look at premium then. And the goal was to get premium CPMs on the media we sold.
[00:08:23] Brian: premium ad network. Talk about oxymorons.
[00:08:26] Troy: would you consider paying up for super premium men's fashion of any type?
[00:08:30] Brian:
[00:08:30] Alex: what's super
[00:08:31] Troy: Well, Cuccinelli
lower piano,
[00:08:34] Brian: guy,
no, I'm
not paying a thousand dollars for a t-shirt. I like his vibe, I love his stories. His blog posts are nice, but no,
[00:08:41] Alex: I shop at theory, basically all the stuff I buy from theory, which is, not super premium, but more
[00:08:46] Troy: No, it's accessible. Premium.
that's,
you. Should be up Mark. You, you, you need
to be
[00:08:51] Brian: should, you should leave
[00:08:52] Alex: Look like a t-shirt is $75. $75. Yeah.
[00:08:57] Brian: you
[00:08:57] Troy: you gotta keep, you gotta go up, Alex.
[00:09:00] Alex: What,
[00:09:01] Brian: mean I'm, I'm in comfort.
[00:09:09] Troy: I'm glad we kicked it off like that. my apologies to, people that I somehow offended, but
[00:09:14] Alex: this is probably gonna be the longest cold open.
[00:09:16] Brian: Okay, let's do it.
[00:09:17] Troy: I'm becoming an anti cold open. They're, they're just getting cheesy and predictable. So let's use something like this, which was, a substantive mini conversation and almost like a mini pod in and of itself.
[00:09:27] Intro Start
[00:09:49] Brian: Welcome to People versus Algorithms, a conversation about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Marcy. I write the Rebooting Newsletter and host the Rebooting Show podcast. Each week I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young, writer of the People Versus Algorithms Newsletter.
And Alex Schleifer, former head of Design at Airbnb, and founder of Universal Entities. This week we're discussing the future of bundle. In between. Troy tries to defend his slander of ranker, and Alex comes out and wishes the advertising industry burns to the ground. But I wanna focus on the bundles part.
Bundles have been the cornerstone of the media business. Jim Barksdale once said, there are two ways to make money in business, bundling and unbundling. And the thing about bundling is everyone wants to be the bundler, and no one wants to be the bundled. And for regular people, the ones we too often call the audience or worst users.
Bundles are a lot like what Winston Churchill supposedly said about democracy. It's the worst option other than all the others. I mean, think about the unbundling of cable. I have no idea what show is where, and I'm definitely paying more than I ever did. So this is another example of being careful what you wish for.
With the rise of ai, it is safe to assume the technology will continue its role. As the bundler of media moving beyond its control of distribution, choke points to rebundle content as if a robot was quote unquote creating it. Of course, the robot is pulling off a parlor trick and the choice to make robots.
These robots seem conversational and quasi human is no mistake for the news industry. Bundling long ago was taken away from them, given to search and social algorithms, and now there are new attempts to Rebundle News article. Most notably with the app artifact created by the co-founders of Instagram, and in this conversation.
We take stock of the state of bundling in media in what form it will take. Next, thanks to everyone who has left a rating and review of this podcast. Thanks. In particular to Linda Holladay who added a comment to her five star Apple Review to say this is the kind of clear-eyed take on the intersection between media and technology that might have saved a few publishers over the years.
And thank you, Linda. And in particular, thank you, as an editor, before AI started doing all the copy editing. For Hyphenating Clear Eye because it is a modifier after all. Okay, enough of the copying talk. Here's our conversation.
[00:11:58] Intro End
[00:11:59] Troy: What are we doing today? Brian, you brought a great topic to the
table.
I'm looking forward to discussing it.
[00:12:04] Brian: well, I don't know if I brought a good topic to the table, but then Alex wanted to talk about like passion or something like what
[00:12:10] Troy: No, I
think Alex wanna talk about mysticism.
[00:12:15] Brian: you.
[00:12:18] Alex: Uh, no, I just feel that sometimes we talk about how we can, how much money is left to squeeze out of advertising and we forget that, we gotta start making shit we love, but that's not what we
[00:12:28] Troy: Yeah. But people wanna know about CAC to L T V ratios.
Alex,
we gotta
get practical.
[00:12:33] Brian: This is not a time for making things you love. This is the time for monetization. We've
[00:12:37] Alex: this is the time.
[00:12:38] Brian: There is a season for everything,
and this is a
season of monetization.
[00:12:41] Alex: it feels like we're starting to really fr. Advertising oil for every last scent left until there's nothing left in the media landscape. So let's do it. Scorched
[00:12:50] Brian: it
Media fracking.
[00:12:51] Troy: that's a great name. You should actually register that for the new ad tech company Ad
Fracker.
[00:12:56] Brian: ad fracker,
[00:12:58] Troy: It's like a AI is like brain fracking or knowledge fracking.
[00:13:01] Brian: nobody in Europe, Alex would ever do frack. They would never even think to do it.
[00:13:05] Alex: No, no, they
[00:13:06] Troy: true.
[00:13:07] Alex: it feels like we're trying to talk about everything except the topic today.
[00:13:10] Troy: Yeah. Brian, get us into our topic.
[00:13:12] Brian: what I wanna get at a little bit is, one is What was the role of the bundle? And then how that got destroyed by the internet, assuming you agree. And then also how, to think about bundling,from a product point of view.
[00:13:23] Troy: Hey, hey Brian. It's probably worth it, you know, maybe I'll throw this back to you for a sec, because we expect a high degree of media comprehension with the audience, but I don't even know if people understand. Thoroughly what you mean by the bundle unbundling. maybe you should just kind of set it up, definitionally for the audience.
[00:13:42] Brian: to me, like a media product, historically has been a bundle, let's just take news for example. I mean, my first sort of relationship with news was the Philadelphia inquiry. I used to go to the end of the driveway, get to Philadelphia before the bus came, and I would pour over the baseball statistics to try to figure out how batty an average has changed.
I only read the sports section and then I started reading the comics section. But the, the newspaper, the was a bundle of all sorts of stuff and they made a ton of money off classified ads the bundles could be very, very lucrative cause you brought people in, you bundled together a lot of content and there was people in the house who didn't want the comics.
It didn't really matter. I wasn't into the horoscopes, I wasn't into Ann Landers, but it was a bundle the cable bundle was, was around you bundle all these things together, you're able to extract more value. People always say, well, there's stuff in here that I don't want. I just wanna, you know, it's the same as like the album.
I only wanted two songs. the Internet's changed all that. It unbundled everything. You could just pick and choose. and the,
[00:14:37] Alex: say?
[00:14:38] Brian: the economics
[00:14:38] Alex: Yeah. Would you say a, a social media feed like a news feed on, Twitter or Facebook is a bundle.
way, go.
[00:14:46] Brian: is a new bundle. Yes.
[00:14:47] Alex: Okay.
[00:14:47] Brian: Yeah. I think that's been the bundle we've been living with. in the analog year we had completely different bundles. Magazine is a bundle to me, isn't it?
[00:14:55] Troy: Yep.
[00:14:55] Alex: think it was made even more of a bundle by, the publishers being incentivized to make headlines that work nearly independently. So you could just scan it over Twitter and never have to visit the site. So it felt like you were getting all your news, on something like Twitter without having to read anything.
And that probably, made it feel much more like a bundle.
[00:15:13] Troy: you're talking about the social media feed?
[00:15:15] Alex: Yeah, I had a social media feed because otherwise you would say, well, it's just a series of link and you still have to go sign up to the New York Times or hop onto another system, see somebody else's ads. But I think over time what's become apparent is that. those news companies are pretty eager to just put content that will get engagement even if it doesn't get clicks.
I don't know why they do that, honestly.
[00:15:34] Troy: Yeah. The, you know, technology has this way of creating. Layers and through that warring bundlers. So if you,follow Brian's, bundling explanation and you start with the story and then the brand, which was the magazine or the newspaper, now we have aggregators fighting to create bu a layer.
there's aggregators, there's social media properties. The browser is arguably a place for bundling, I would say Apple bundles at the OS level with Apple News or almost at the device level. So there's, everybody's kind of fighting for that position because it's extremely valuable.
And if you get the right bundling position, you can extract a toll, on the consumer, And so there's always this funny kind of two-way everybody wants to be on top and to control the bundle. And there's this kind of tension of the people that are. Most important to the bundle that want to be their own bundle, and there are the ones underneath that have so-called quote unquote premium content or highly valuable units in the bundle.
And they want to be a bundle, and the other people want to kind of create user. Centered layers on top of that content so that they can own the bundle. It's interesting, I thought about it for a second. You know, Yahoo was an early bundler, And they did it through, the, the classic bundling story in, platform land would be to create u utilities that brought in a lot of traffic, like email or search, or, you know, financial information, which was kind of Yahoo or sports information.
And then kind of bundle a bunch of other content into a feed around that. And then once they started seeing, do you remember this, Brian, when they saw, or or Alex, we saw threats from other people that were becoming these new aggregators. Whether it was, there was one called Buzz Tracker. Remember that kid from England, that 17 year old Nick who had that Yahoo bought his company called Soley,
[00:17:16] Brian: I love, Yahoo News Digest. That was my favorite.
[00:17:18] Troy: Yeah. And try
to turn that into their, their, their bundling mechanism. Even Tumblr arguably was a, was a bundle, a bundling mechanism that
[00:17:26] Alex: Well, I mean, you're missing out the biggest one, right? RSS feeds. That used to be the original bundle I used to curate
[00:17:32] Troy: that's a human, that's a human program bundle, right.
[00:17:34] Alex: Sure. That's fair. what is it that we love the bundle? People love bundles.
[00:17:38] Brian: People love
[00:17:39] Alex: People just loved bundles. Yeah.
[00:17:41] Brian: I mean,
who wants to think about all this stuff?
[00:17:43] Alex: I mean, it's becoming a nightmare now, right? I think we'rebeing attracted to the bundle again because I think people felt that cord cutting was like a nice thing to do, so that it would have more control.
But at the end of the day, like control is just becoming overhead, And I think the bundle is just attractive. And let, let's go back to that, to that artifact app, I've been using the Artifact app for, a few weeks now. I like it. I think it's great.
But I hit a snag, which is that I, I use Apple News as well, and I paid for some sort of Apple News premium stuff, which means I get access to a bunch of premium newspapers. So when I click the link, I read the article in Reflect, it still sends me to places that hit a paywall. So I'm like, okay, I'm not gonna use that.
I just actually forgot that I paid for a bundle in Apple because it's so integrated, and I wonder how anyone's gonna compete with that.
[00:18:25] Brian: With Apple on that.
[00:18:26] Troy: it doesn't link through, you can't credentialize on artifact yet. so when you hit Wall Street Journal content, it's, you get kind of flummoxed. When you hit Ft content, the same thing happens. Anything that's paywall is not really sorted yet.
you wouldn't wanna make that easy for them if you were the pay waller.
[00:18:42] Alex: right.
[00:18:42] Brian: yeah. I actually did a podcast with an app that I think is an interesting approach to news bundling. It's called Informed. And they're actually targeting, English speaking and reading Europeans who they're never going to subscribe. if they're in Germany, they're very unlikely that they're gonna subscribe to the Wall Street Journal.
But they want like,every now and again an article. So they're actually aggregating, bundling, paywall content mostly from American and, and British, publications. And particularly starting with a, with a European audience, non-English speaking, primarily
non interest. Well, no, they're striking deals the old fashioned way,
[00:19:16] Alex: Oh, they
[00:19:16] Brian: because
nobody, not nobody, very few people who are sitting in the dole door for something like this are going to shell out like a full subscription to, the Wall Street Journal.
Just unlikely.
[00:19:28] Troy: there's a few nice things about artifact. they're thoughtful application designers. I like that it tells you the number of reads. I like that it tells you if you sent it to someone, if they opened it or not. That's a nice feature. I like that it connects to your network auto automatically so that it can be influenced by what your friends read.
Here's the thing though. it sent me down some rabbit holes. It's oh my God, you like Tesla, you like Elon Musk. So I started getting tons
of these stories. Yeah. But, but, I, I've used aggregation apps before and I find
them, you know, interesting and.
[00:19:59] Brian: Troy.
[00:20:00] Troy: Compelling for a while, and then I stop using them.
So the question on artifact is, and, and clearly their aspirations are much more than just being a news reader. They want it to, start by finding the things that you're interested in and then create a layer around content that becomes, a layer for commentary, a layer for connection. I'm sure they have sort of social media like aspirations.
I think they're gonna get liftoff, they'll get a lot of people using this so they can start to see behavior and start to optimize the AI to deliver better content. The question is, will they be able to layer, communication type applications on top of content so that it becomes an important new, social application?
We'll see.
everything doesn't have to turn into a social network. Troy
[00:20:42] Brian: I don't wanna follow you on artifact.
[00:20:44] Troy: Okay. So, uh, what, what are you saying? Are you saying that, that this app's gonna work?
[00:20:50] Alex: here's the thing. communication apps are terrible businesses often. And I think if you build a
[00:20:55] Troy: is that true? How can you say that? Well, is Facebook a communication
[00:20:59] Alex: well, Twitter,
[00:21:01] Troy: Instagram a communication app?
[00:21:03] Alex: the communication components of it are the least, profitable,
it's the
feeds and the media
consumption chat doesn't monetize.
[00:21:09] Troy: I don't think it's the right time not to build another social network. It is definitely the right time to make, to build something that makes sense of content,
Okay, once we have a nice news reader, what do we put behind it, Mr. Product, person on artifact. I guarantee you there will be a layer for commentary and interaction and so please don't take my, positioning it as a social network to literally, but I think that connecting the people that read the content will be a strategy for that product team.
[00:21:36] Alex: It's gonna be an interesting tension for them because the spiel right now is that they're sending people straight to the sites. And I think those sites want to maintain those communities.
[00:21:44] Brian: Oh, we've seen this
before. I mean, come on. They're say there's too much friction and then all
[00:21:53] Alex: Oh
[00:21:54] Troy: yeah.
it's always gets caught up in the monetization. Okay? So you create a layer on top of other people's stuff and you tell 'em, kumbaya, we're gonna send users onto your pages so that the ad server cranks away. And then they're gonna say, holy shit, we run outta capital. We need to either create a subscription layer on top of this thing, or we need to create our own ad insertion point.
What do you pick? Is it valuable enough to pay for? In which case, you're sort of crowding out the, the media layer below you because you've got a new layer to take money from the consumer, And then, this is kind of the thing that's happening that's gonna happen with chat G P T as they take a toll, or as you know now, meta's taking a toll with Instagram, you pay them.
Or Twitter's trying to take a toll. So now we have the social network layer trying to take a toll, not just advertising. All of this puts pressure on the media layer below. I guess I'm just trying to say artifact is a really interesting thing cuz it's a decent product, but A, do you get tired of it and go back to what doing what you used to do and what was that?
And B, what happens when they have to make it a business? Where does it go?
[00:22:58] Brian: I think they have to get it on platform and surely they've seen Flipboard, mean maybe it's a slightly better Flipboard maybe, I wouldn't say that
it, was
[00:23:05] Alex: it's, it's not a new concept, right?
Like Smart News was founded in 2014, was once valued at 2 billion. I don't know what it's valued at now. It had a really, it had a
really great, well, the question is like, what is their motivation? They obviously have a lot of personal wealth and maybe they don't want to create something that becomes a billion dollar social network again.
at some point you become a gatekeeper. So you get to gate what, content gets on your feed. and at some point potentially you could build a subscription service out of it. I think that's the key here. can you build what is actually a real bundle?
Say hey, Do you want to pay subscriptions to the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times and all of that, and it's all bundled in and we take a buck off that?
[00:23:41] Brian: Yeah.
[00:23:41] Troy: Paid is always the glue for the bundle.
[00:23:43] Brian: Yes.
And I think what is interesting is this happening right now versus whenever Flipboard came around, what was it 10, 12 years ago, is the weight is always gonna be to subscriptions. Nobody in Silicon Valley is going out there and being you know, we're gonna like do advertising.
That's how we're gonna make money. I mean, gimme a break. Nobody's gonna do that anymore. I think that's what's interesting about all the AI stuff is that ads aren't even an option for a lot of this stuff. Cause it's so expensive and fine, the prices will come down, but it doesn't work with an ad model.
I think ai and that's why you look at Snap that came out with their little AI chat bot thing based on chat g PT apparently less creepy or whatever. But it's, it's just available to their, they're, they're using it right now to drive subscriptions. so I don't, I think like
subscriptions is gonna end up
[00:24:30] Troy: that? Can
you explain that, Brian? What? Snapchat needed to put. Chat g p t into their kind of conversational environment so that I can speak to, the robot instead of my friends. What, what, what does it have to say to me? Is it trained on specific topics?
Is it good with relationships how is it different? Other than
it's
[00:24:49] Brian: have not,
[00:24:50] Troy: manifesting a chatted interface.
[00:24:51] Brian: I haven't used it, but I think this is like the first of like several, not the first, there are gonna be all these different versions, using the same LLMs and the basic technology and chat G P T and whoever else has the LLMs are gonna just take their fee and people are gonna build personalized versions of their own chat bots.
And so, if you wanted like a right wing chat bot to talk about grievances and stuff like this.
[00:25:17] Alex: Yeah, how long till we have a bundle that we're paying for to access multiple chatbots at once. I mean, that's coming, get the science bundle and you get all the smarty smarty chatbots together, or the SaaS bundle.
I think anything that has a chat. Interface is gonna have some sort of bot attached to it at some point that you can pay for. And I agree with Brian. the thing that makes me really exciting is that this could finally kill advertising, which sucks and has never
been good
[00:25:41] Brian: Jesus. I don't like it. Wait, wait, wait. Don't, don't rope me into that one.
[00:25:44] Alex: Yeah. It's done.
[00:25:45] Brian: I love
[00:25:46] Alex: I know, I know you both do. I
[00:25:47] Troy: Advertising is, is, is essential,
and,
and,um,
[00:25:51] Alex: it is.
[00:25:51] Brian: selling ads.
[00:25:52] Alex: Well, I feel sometimes that people selling ads are just doing it out of a grudge and say, if I have to waste my time on advertising, you viewers and readers have to waste your time on seeing this Advertising.
Advertising doesn't exist in the Star Trek future that I'm imagining,
[00:26:07] Troy: Do you want to tell us more? How are people with commercial interests that wanna sell more products served? Alex, I'm, I'm curious cause maybe it's just a different form of advertising that you're envisioning.
[00:26:19] Alex: If you plot a line, it should be that the products are so good and the people are so equipped with ways of communicating that good products, get by, by just being talked about.
[00:26:30] Troy: What about the mediocre products?
[00:26:32] Alex: they don't no longer need to exist, or they
become
[00:26:34] Troy: not everybody's an A student, Alex.
[00:26:36] Alex: what you're essentially saying with advertising is that, Hey, Alex, we need a layer of lies applied to capitalism.
Otherwise people won't buy the shitty products. Otherwise,
[00:26:45] Brian: people won't just buy the precisely layer
of lies. That's
[00:26:51] Troy: Yeah.
[00:26:54] Alex: like a microbiome that needs to exist, to kind
[00:26:58] Troy: What about just telling stories about products to make you feel more compelled to be part of that narrative? Alex, what about
[00:27:05] Alex: But why would those stories need to be told by middlemen? And,
[00:27:08] Troy: Well, because if I tell, I mean, cuz you're, you know, you're peeing in the wind. You gotta, you gotta get your story heard by lots of people.
[00:27:15] Alex: So make
something good. Make something good.
[00:27:17] Brian: so here's the thing though. And, and I hate to bring it back to AI cause we're gonna have to make this like an AI podcast, but AI and I, this isn't original. Something I read, I just don't know which, AI is really good. We've seen this at this gas lighting stuff, that is core to advertising.
So advertising is gonna get more effective with AI because what advertising does is perfect for.
[00:27:39] Troy: absolutely perfect. I totally agree with you, particularly when it's unleashed at a SKU level. When you can start pointing the AI at product features, at at individual SKUs and at price points so that I could simply say, tell me the best television according to these specific requirements. Tell me where it's available in my neighborhood, why I should buy it, what the price point is, and how do I get it delivered?
That's AI advertising.
[00:28:06] Brian: to me it's it's gonna be between
advertising and sales. Well, sales, instead of it just being advertising, it's gonna be a true sales experience where just like you walk in, everything's gonna be,
[00:28:16] Alex: Watching you guys' eyes light up as you're talking about how AI is going to make advertising better is a little bit like, listening in on a weapons manufacturer, get excited about a new war . It's just this sounds
[00:28:27] Brian: yeah.
[00:28:27] Alex: terrible guys.
[00:28:28] Brian: Oh, I'm already thinking about the AI Advertising Summit. Rebooting
[00:28:32] Troy: think it sounds terrible. It sounds like good service, but apropo to the, the artifact conversation, I think that. , the reason that new, bundling mechanisms are being created now, and while you'll see maybe a little renaissance in bundling is because of ai. And the ultimate bundler for me is one that imitates the way I get all of my news now and goes out and does all the work of fetching it and organizing it and condensing it and pointing out the stuff that I should be spending time on.
the robot can do that for me. they're trying to do that obviously inside of artifact with, a smarter algorithm than what came before. But Flipboard didn't have a fancy algorithm.
the, you know, AI is gonna change how we go out and reconstitute all of these sort of fragmented bits of media around us.
That's what's
[00:29:19] Alex: no. And all I'm saying is I, hope in that wash, that advertising gets eradicated.
It's a
[00:29:25] Brian: feel like ad busters, I mean, I know it's a dream, but it's unrealistic.
[00:29:29] Alex: Why shouldn't we look at a world where all the bad things are gone? I don't think advertising needs to exist. Just build a good thing.
[00:29:34] Troy: But I think that you need to be more specific about what types of
[00:29:38] Alex: The only reason advertising exists is because advertising exists and it's an arms race. If nobody had advertising, nobody would need to advertise because you would hear about Topcon Maverick because that was the movie that people were watching and talking about, advertising benefits. The corporations with deep pockets always has. And I think that AI and more subscription based bundles, to bring it back to the bundle, might be a great way to move away from that
[00:30:02] Troy: What do you think of more, sort of service oriented advertising?
you know, an affiliate link? No, no, no. Like you've searched for the best life insurance and you get a thoughtfully produced article that steers you towards the right solution and they get paid for passing you on through that link.
do
you think that that's advertis?
[00:30:21] Alex: I think it depends on the context of what was, presented to me. If the algorithm behind it is trying to find the best product, which is what targeted advertising should be, right? That it says well, I'm not gonna sell you the one that has the biggest margin. I might sell you the one that is best for you, Alex.
then I think that is a useful layer of commerce and, targeting that I would be supportive of. But it's not, advertising anymore. it's really just being
[00:30:46] Brian: a gray area, but I think the way it's done is probably moving more towards advertising than what Alex is describing. I mean, cuz ultimately there's a tension, There's a tension between what's best for you as the publisher of the best hair dryers or whatever, and what's best for the consumer.
And this is the problem of advertising. There's misaligned incentives.
[00:31:05] Troy: I just also think Alex hasn't been getting the kinds of ads that he needs. So if we had ads for headphones and mushrooms and microphones and keyboards and stuff, he would be more positive
[00:31:16] Brian: Yeah, this is an ad targeting problem mostly. Alex,
we just need more of your data.
[00:31:20] Alex: targeting
[00:31:21] Troy: Okay.
[00:31:22] Brian: Any ad conference, if you wanna get a bunch of heads nodding, just be like, people don't hate advertising. They hate irrelevant advertising.
[00:31:32] Troy: is there a way to steer us back to the bundling conversation, Brian?
[00:31:36] Alex: the thing about bundling is that it becomes, Really useful once it's a paid bundle. I think advertising supported bundles are still an oddity to me. the ultimate bundle is the one where you just pay one price and you get everything, which is what happens with music.
However, with music, if that's the way forward, I don't think media companies are gonna like the 0.70
[00:31:53] Brian: Yeah.
[00:31:54] Alex: They get per
[00:31:55] Brian: thousand reads, I think the problem is when, the, publisher or the media entity is not, the bundler is the bundle, they give away a lot of the value, are you paying for the bundling function or are you paying for the underlying content? And then how do you determine what the value is of the content underneath the bundle,
Because it gives. Disproportionate power to the Bundler. That's why everyone wants to be the bundler, not the bundle.
[00:32:19] Troy: wasn't there a McDonald's character called Bundle?
[00:32:22] Brian: there was a hamburger,
[00:32:25] Troy: Oh, it was the
burglar. The buner.
[00:32:27] Alex: the hand, bundler,
[00:32:28] Troy: can we focus our attention on the TV bundle and where it's going?
because I,hated the cable bundle and I still pay for the cable bundle via YouTube tv, which is a far better product than the cable bundle technically.
that it preceded, or sorry, That it came after. but, I want separate interfaces to content. I like that. I like a streamer with a point of view. So one of the things that I find, you know, and I don't think it's gonna happen now, but there was some threat that they would roll that discovery junk into H B O.
I don't want reality TV next to my pristine television.
[00:33:02] Alex: you want a premium.
[00:33:03] Troy: I want a premium
[00:33:04] Alex: Yeah. You don't want your, your, what you're saying, Troy, is you don't want your ranker in your New York Times, basically. Is that what you're saying,
Troy?
That
sounds like what,
[00:33:12] Brian: Not rank.
[00:33:13] Troy: what No, but, but, uh, I like to know
that
there's a, there's a, pretty fine, pretty fine tuned, signal to noise, kind of experience on my H B O and I don't want like pimple poppers next to the soprano.
[00:33:29] Alex: I think a good way of doing that, and it hasn't been completely. Perfectly executed on because they haven't been able to strike every deal. But the Apple TV interface was meant to be a little bit of that, which is, it created the idea of a bundle because you could pay for everything through your Apple account, and I can list all the accounts that I have on Apple and I can cancel them easily.
Right.
So
[00:33:47] Troy: Netflix doesn't show
[00:33:48] Alex: except fucking Netflix. And then, the, the watch next feed, adding anything in one of those apps would add it into some central watch next feed, which would just open
[00:33:57] Troy: I mean, I gotta tell you, I love that product, Alex. I like the product a lot. It's an incredibly hostile move from Apple. It is such a valuable position for them to have to own the interface to all of, video media like that, leveraging, you know, their hardware, apple tv, and the phone to get there and the whole ecosystem.
to,
to, you know, the.
[00:34:15] Alex: business on top of it.
[00:34:16] Troy: Yeah. I mean it's, it's, it's nasty but it's useful and they're so good at interface. I very much appreciate it.
[00:34:22] Alex: I just bought the Apple One subscription. I get most of the stuff. Then I add whatever thing I need to, even if it's more expensive because I can remove them easily. And I know, I'm like, I have the privilege of having enough money to do that, that seems to be the future and people are always going to lean towards what's simpler and easier to use.
[00:34:38] Brian: Yeah. I mean that's the thing with having like a unique interface, you don't need to, it's like hotel rooms go back to, they should mostly be
structured the same
way. So you get in, you know what to do.
[00:34:47] Alex: I'm kind of with you Brian, but I think this may be a place, that's between what you're saying and what Troy is saying, which I don't mind having the streamer having a point of view, even though the H B O Max is a terrible app But part of the issue is that there's no baseline standards around like changing, close captioning.
The forwarding is different. You know, that type of stuff should really be standardized across the board, and that's still to this day is a nightmare. the fact that people's keep trying to reinvent what, skipping forward on a video would look like on the same bloody TV.
is nuts to me. Nuts.
[00:35:16] Brian: I mean, nobody's gone tofield Max for the interface. I know we talk about interfaces, it's for the last of us. I just wanna watch the show. Maybe I'm unique in that
[00:35:26] Troy: did you see it last night?
[00:35:27] Alex: I didn't see it last night. I played the game, I know everything that's coming. It's a grim,
it's a grim, it's a
grim story.
[00:35:33] Troy: I hate to hijack the moderator role, but the, uh, where does, where, where do we net out on the future of bundling in television? What,
[00:35:41] Brian: Oh, I don't know. This is your, this is your topic. What does happen? I don't have, I don't have an opinion on it. I don't have an inform or uninformed opinion on it.
[00:35:48] Alex: you definitely get to a point where apple and the people providing the pathways into the content gain more power, and you also end up with a lot less streamers. I think we have too many of those and the economics don't make sense for them. So a lot of them are going to end up merging anyway.
So you might have, you know, an Apple TV with six apps on it, rather than the 12 we have today.
[00:36:07] Troy: and you might have a handful of, premium but small like Criterion collection and stuff like that.
[00:36:12] Alex: Sure. these could be decent businesses,
[00:36:14] Brian: the streaming. economics I think they're tough. everyone was just growing to grow and now, the Zolan looks like pretty smart he got out there early, was like, we gotta make money off this stuff.
Forget about this. Just like piling up subscriptions.
[00:36:27] Alex: isn't h B O spending a lot less per minute of successful content than somebody like Netflix is? Netflix is hugely wasteful in the way it creates content, It throws so many things at the wall, and there's still like an advantage to companies like H B O, which for some reason have the ability to create hit after hit.
you know, HBO is kind of the apple of, media companies.
[00:36:47] Brian: they must
have used AI to do
that. Right.
[00:36:49] Troy: Apple. is quickly becoming the apple of media companies
[00:36:51] Alex: mean, incredible.
Incredibly considering where they started. Do you remember that? Do you remember a planet of the apps? Do you remember Planet of the Apps, their first show
[00:36:59] Brian: Oh yeah. Planet
[00:37:00] Troy: and
[00:37:00] Alex: a f.
[00:37:01] Troy: a car? car?
Carpool karaoke
[00:37:03] Alex: Carpool. Karaoke. Yeah. Yeah. Nightmares. Nightmare shows.
[00:37:06] Troy: so Brian, how do we put a bow around this?
[00:37:08] Brian: I dunno how we put a bow around it. the future of bundling in media, I don't know, Troy, how would you on it?
[00:37:13] Troy: Well, the future of bundling is ai and anybody who can get far enough up the stack to hold you into the bundle,
[00:37:19] Brian: Is that
[00:37:20] Troy: it's not gonna get any less fragmented because there's too many people that wanna create content and have the means to do it. So there's going to, continue to be innovation around the interfaces that give you access to that content. And increasingly, the hard work of aggregating up will be done by robots.
[00:37:35] Alex: Yeah. And I think there, there's, going to be such a demand for,what was the app you just mentioned that kind of creates a, bite size version of, subscription thing that European one
informed.
people will get really used to the idea of things that can give them a snippet of the news.
And I expect, to make this real a little bit, that I would pay a premium news bot that says, you know, we don't have ranker, we don't only have New York Times and Wall Street Journal and stuff like that. You pay that news about 10 bucks. You don't, maybe don't get to read the articles, but you ask it to give you a transcript every day of what's happened.
and that's that. I think people are just gonna be using it like that. It's going to be the ultimate bottle. Imagine watching a show that's essentially all your favorite shows together, merged by an ai, the last of us with some severance, with some Ted lasso in it altogether should be great.
[00:38:19] Brian: Yeah. And, and the economics are gonna be a total mess. So it's be fun. It'll be fun
to, to sort up.
[00:38:25] Alex: And look at that. No more advertising. How great,
[00:38:28] Brian: Now advertising finds a way. Advertising always finds a way we need it. Capital. We're never, we're not getting capitalism. I,
capitalism,
[00:38:37] Alex: sad
state of affair.
[00:38:38] Troy: think? How do you react to the term late stage capitalism?
[00:38:41] Brian: I think that's passe now.
[00:38:42] Troy: doesn't that suggest it's coming to an end, Brian?
[00:38:45] Brian: I mean, it suggests, it, I look at history. Everything does eventually end. capitalism was made up. It wasn't the natural order of things, on the planet. it's just made up
and we keep making compromises on
[00:38:55] Alex: it does feel like capitalism is getting kind of maximized in optimism. Maybe we should name capitalism like phases in the Marvel universe. This is like the phase four capitalism with all the multiverse stuff and it's eating itself. This is the one where advertising dies.
like that Alex has become this kind of proponent
[00:39:12] Brian: I know
[00:39:12] Troy: rich capitalism,
[00:39:14] Brian: way. That is the best way to do it though. Let's be real.
yeah, no, I think capitalism will adapt. It always adapts, it always, always, always adapts and it has a good track record and honestly, inequality has been going down, not up.
I'm gonna, I'm pro comfort here. but yeah,
[00:39:32] Alex: somebody probably wrote this on a scroll at the end of the Roman Empire. But yes, it'll, it'll come back. It'll, it'll be fine. Hey, man, I'm optimistic. I wanna see it all burned down. I wanna see it all washed away and, changed a little bit.
[00:39:47] Troy: there's going to be a readjustment to so many things, and some of those could be really exciting. I do feel that things that benefit large companies with a lot of capital advertising, where you can flood advertising or like production values where you can only make a movie that's this big $400 million.
[00:40:03] Alex: All of those things are changing with ai. And I think that's exciting because there's going to be new conglomeration and new big companies that can do things that, small shops can't do. But it's going to, even the playing field for a little bit, just long enough to chip away.
[00:40:17] Brian: Yeah,
[00:40:17] Alex: chip away at this stuff.
[00:40:18] Brian: that part I'm very excited about within a capitalist, system.
[00:40:22] Troy: should you wanna reach 15,000 influential people in the media marketing industry, Brian has a
[00:40:27] Brian: Yeah, absolutely. I part ways with Alex on this one. I'm very pro capitalism, very pro advertising.
[00:40:34] Alex: maybe The place for advertising is purely to be a Patreon of the arts like us. So let's say, Supreme, which I talked about earlier, wanted to sponsor this show. be okay with that.
[00:40:44] Troy: how about if someone like, tabula wanted to
sponsor it?
[00:40:47] Alex: No.
[00:40:48] Troy: Hmm. There goes one.
[00:40:50] Alex: Look, look, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's a sandwich. There's a sandwich of sadness that's wrapping beautiful content and one of them is SEO via Google. And the other one is all that like supportive content, like the tabula stuff. And that's just like squeezing what was great about the internet.
[00:41:09] Brian: well, we have to do an entire
episode on.
[00:41:11] Alex: top, trash at the bottom.
[00:41:12] Brian: What's very interesting is, at least that I've been told, is that a lot of the stuff in the content rec ad networks and the stuff that you're referring to, I think the tofu stuff is really a phenomenon for the most part of English speaking markets. it's because they're so big and so deep there's so many opportunities for arbitrage, with English language content that these networks don't necessarily see.
[00:41:36] Troy: Plus the incidence of to fungus is reduced in places where you don't wear shoes as often and, and, you know, live urban existence.
[00:41:44] Alex: and, and, and restless leg syndrome, like if you actually walk around.
[00:41:48] Troy: that was episode was, you know, even better than I thought it would be.
[00:41:51] Brian: Do we need good product?
[00:41:52] Troy: Yeah, I got a good product, I think, or two,
[00:41:54] Good Product
[00:41:55] Troy: this week I was a little under pressure to get a good product I thought it could be, my marzo espresso machine.
I mean, you have to test a
good product,
[00:42:03] Alex: a humble brag.
[00:42:05] Troy: no, no. no. Or it could be the ECM Titan 64 espresso grinder. Could be a nice cashmere cardigan or a well worn jean shirt. It could be a broken in pair of Todd Suede boots or something like that,
which I'm personally kind of partial
to. I have. Yeah, I
wait, wait, wait. wait. wait. wait. Brian, Brian, I assure you that this is one of the most beloved parts of the podcast. and then, I called up the, guru of products, or actually texted him shortly before this episode, and that's Eric Yang from Gear Patrol. And Eric knows a lot about good products he was doing ju jury duty or something.
Anyway, he managed to text me back. He said The Unni Pizza Oven, he said, it's a phenomenon and it's a great product, and I have no idea because I've never used one. So that can't be my good product. And then I asked him if there was a color that he suggested as a good product, and he said Midnight green.
He said It's premium and it works well with anything. He could go on a car or a jacket or a phone. And he said, it's premium, but it's not black or blue. So I thought that was good, but none of that matters to me. Okay,
[00:43:12] Brian: it's also the Eagles. It's also the Eagles cover, the color. I would say that Midnight Green Kelly Green
[00:43:18] Troy: Yeah.
and my good product of the week is, Harriet, the dog, because it's better than any of that. harriet's my dog and I had her on the beach yesterday and she was just burning around and just was so free and just absolutely savoring every minute of the run and was just so overflowing with joy that gave me joy.
And that is the best product you could ever have.
[00:43:44] Alex: Yep.
[00:43:45] Troy: happy dog,
[00:43:46] Brian: That's true.
[00:43:47] Alex: Dogs are a good product. because they were actually created by humans. That's what we turned wolves into over 10,000 years by throwing the bad ones into a ditch and just keeping the funny
[00:43:56] Brian: Yeah. And they're realistic, you know, they know where their bread is buttered and they, they know they got no shot unless they are cute and obedient and loyal and all the stuff
that like,
[00:44:07] Alex: it's
[00:44:07] Brian: so it's
power. That's it. It's actually funny that you, you appreciate the dog. Cause the dog, you know, accepts its place and his, you know, and to,
[00:44:18] Alex: Yeah,
[00:44:20] Troy: well.
[00:44:20] Brian: to power. That's what's what dogs,
[00:44:22] Alex: one day wolves are gonna figure it out and see what we did to them and bundle themselves into just a giant hoard of attack wolves. that's the future.
[00:44:30] Outro
[00:44:30] Brian: Thank you all for listening. I wanna encourage you, again to leave a rating or review on Apple, or I think you can do this on Spotify and other podcast platforms. it helps people discover this podcast and also gives us, people to thank in the intro. We'll be back next week with a new episode.
[00:44:45] Troy: Wow. Well, we, uh, we were really happy to have Alex on the podcast this week,
[00:44:50] Alex: Thank you guys.
But we love your dog, Troy Harriet, the dog.
Bye guys.
[00:44:55] Troy: Bye. 


PVA S1E26
PVA S1E26
[00:00:00] Alex:
[00:00:00] Troy: Alex, you're, you're a little hard to hear my love.
[00:00:02] Brian: Are you in
France?
[00:00:03] Troy: I'm in France? Yeah, in Paris.
[00:00:04] Brian: Paris
[00:00:05] Troy: Paris.
[00:00:05] Alex: what are you doing in Paris, Troy?
[00:00:07] Troy: I'm here for some meetings.
[00:00:08] Brian: Meetings.
Wow.
[00:00:10] Alex: Oh, secret meetings
[00:00:11] Troy: Well, I mean, not really, but. I mean, I don't feel the need to discuss them with you.
[00:00:17] Brian: All right. Should we get
started?
[00:00:18] Alex: Troy liked his thing where he starts
talking to us and we don't have a
cold open anymore. Remember?
[00:00:23] Brian: All right, Troy. Story time with
Troy.
[00:00:24] Troy: I just think it's such a weird time in, digital media just because nobody knows what to optimize right now. the only and lasting owned, distribution point has been it's just not working for people, which is the web.
with that, you have, deteriorating yield on programmatic media. Buyers don't wanna buy direct from you anymore. All the old tricks around content marketing and, grouping and social to what you're selling and all that, still I think produce stuff. But it's harder than ever to sell it.
And if you're a video oriented, media company, you still face all the challenges of not really having a reliable distribution point. So, some people. can try to make money off YouTube, but everybody knows how hard that is. Packaging up a fast channel is, I think, increasingly competitive and difficult, and you have to have a whole lot of video to make sense of it.
Instagram and TikTok and stuff aren't, real publisher friendly from an ad product perspective. So it's, it just feels like a really, difficult in between time
[00:01:17] Brian: Is that new?
hasn't publishing for generation, been leaping from one burning platform to the next
burning
platform, trying to stay ahead of a lack of measurement, and then the measurement catches up and they're like, shit, we gotta
find some other
hustle.
[00:01:29] Troy: it's true except that I think before the web was at least some kind of ballast in the business. I believe that the whole kind of internet marketing system on the open web is being rebuilt around affiliate, but, that's maybe a topic for another day.
[00:01:41] Brian: We could go into it a little bit now
[00:01:43] Alex: You sound down Troy.
[00:01:44] Brian: too.
[00:01:44] Alex: Yeah,
[00:01:45] Brian: Take a drink of your beer. No, not nothing like a hotel room. Heineken,
[00:01:49] Alex: I do feel it's different where, if you're a publisher today, where do you decide to invest and innovate or, how do you organize your company around stuff? if you look at where tech is going, you might want to put some money into AI and then potentially just accelerate your demise.
I wouldn't know where to start if somebody asked me. It does feel like, wait and see and, watch as all your kind of income streams start getting eaten up by something else.
[00:02:15] Brian: This is a depressing episode.
[00:02:18] Alex: this is our last of us, the last of media Some, cor decept growing around, bus feed.
it's exciting for, new companies. I think Troy's representing some of the old companies,
we all know they're screwed
[00:02:30] Troy: Well with that, I think we should talk about maybe an emerging platform, right?
[00:02:35] Welcome
[00:02:35] Intro End
[00:02:57] Brian: Welcome to People versus Algorithms, a conversation about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Morrisy. I write the Rebooting Newsletter and host the Rebooting podcast. Each week I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young, writer of the People Versus Algorithms Newsletter.
And Alex Schleifer, former head of design at Airbnb, and founder of Universal. For a company that likely generates a little over 20 million in revenue annually, CK gets outsized attention. It has become synonymous with email newsletters, a bright spot in the publishing landscape, and in my view, a reaction against the mistakes of the scale era.
Both Troy and I publish on ck, which to our grin leads us to being labeled as sub stackers. This is a lot like how Blogger was used as a pejorative, but maybe I'm reading too much into it now. On the surface, CK is just another publishing tool. I mean, it is a basic content management system with an email service provider bundled in and a Stripe integration, but it's become much more.
Which was valued at 650 million in its last funding round has bigger ambitions than being an alternative to MailChimp or exact Target subs wants to be a platform
Subs, sex founders recently unveiled a slogan. That it aspires to be an economic engine of culture. One of the things I noticed in this post is that they did not mention email or newsletters, not once, not one time, and that's because the path sub sees in front of us is to be more like YouTube, which has probably done the best of all the platforms in building a lucrative media network that cuts in creators the most reason.
Lots of creators have built large businesses on YouTube. Thanks to the revenue sharing on ad deals, sub sees similar opportunities, but it is squarely positioned to catch the prevailing wind of subscriptions that's blowing through publishing much to Alex's. It's delight because he's positioned himself on this podcast as being anti advertising.
And on this, I should hasten to add I part ways on Alex, because I love selling and running tasteful and impactful sponsorship integrations. And you should definitely get in touch with me if you wanna discuss this more
but back tock. Publishing out a platform is a risky proposition as we have seen repeatedly over the last decade. What platforms give platforms can just as easily take away.
A crucial difference with CK is the leverage on the publisher side with the distribution list being portable. Now that said, subs is definitely set up to be a new bundler of independent publications, and that means a trade off. And to me that trade off is you have to give up a measure of independence and control and in return.
The upside is you don't have to worry about being a general contractor of different tech integrations, and you get to benefit from the emerging network effects that all successful platforms generate. This week we discuss why subs matters and the calculus. Of building on someone else's platform. If you have feedback to this episode, please send me an email@briantherebooting.com.
And if you like the podcast, please leave us a rating and review wherever you get your podcast. Uh, I wanna thank this week, rich lf. I think it's Rich lf. It could be Rich, but I think it's Rich lf who wrote on Apple. That quote, the trio of Troy Bryant and Alex host a provocative podcast delving into the future of media content and advertising.
It reminds me of being at a startup with smart people who debate where things are going. Thank you very much for that, rich, and that is definitely the vibe we are going for. So now on to the conversation. Yeah, let's talk about CK and I know this is, well, this is a podcast about subtexts. That's fine. It's better than cks about ck. but I think cks actually a, a consequential company
at this point, at this juncture of the media, the weird media world that's collapsing around it,
[00:06:37] Troy: I just wanna say for the record that I don't mean to be doom and gloom because I think there's just so much exciting happening
in our worldas a media consumer, there's certainly no shortage of stuff that I love and want to consume and even wanna make. I love making this podcast with you guys and, I like writing the newsletter now and then.
CK is consequential. I think it certainly has taken up a, a good chunk of my media, time.
[00:06:57] Brian: but I want to talk about it as a continuation of our discussion last week around bundling, because I think that it's pretty clear that CK is gonna become a new bundler. a lot of times there's a lot of sun costs in, the previous platforms, but, I know for myself, like I was always thinking, is CK a tool or is it a platform?
And now it's becoming very clear. It's a platform and it has come out. just this weekend, or maybe it was Friday, Hamish Mackenzie, one of the founders explicitly compared it to YouTube. And it's basically saying that they wanna be a new YouTube. they're not gonna be MailChimp and they're not gonna compete on
being an efficient E s p clearly.
I wanna talk about what that means for them
to
[00:07:35] Troy: What's an s p for the
audience?
[00:07:37] Brian: oh, sorry. An email service provider. A basic tool to send a email. this is what MailChimp has built its business on. And generally, if you're on CK. you're trading, rolling your own E s P and connecting it to Stripe for being on, a, a platform,
They handle all of that. You don't have to do, any of the tech, heavy lifting or it's not even heavy lifting, light lifting yourself. and the of previous platforms is you quote unquote own the customer relationship in that you can take your subscribers and followers and customers, and you can take them with you if you decide to leave the platform, which I think changes the leverage a little bit.
but why don't you just start with Troy, with, give me yours sort of 30,000 foot evaluation of as both a consumer and a producer.
[00:08:19] Troy: as creator of content, that doesn't, and I'm not fixated on sort of any type of direct or even moderately indirect monetization, it's kind of remarkable because, the content creation tools are intuitive and reasonably good. You can, import your email list and you're ready to go.
it has basic analytics. it seems to send out emails reliably. I like it's simplicity. And then I think that as they've added features, whether that was integrated podcasting or chat or, recommendations which are kind of manual, not, algorithmic direct recommendations.
So I can list The other newsletters that I like and want to promote to how they've started to build in this kind of encouragement to monetize by getting people to offer, to subscribe, even if you don't have monetization in place already, to how easy it, makes, a subscription mechanism for those that ch choose to do that.
it's pretty cool. couple things about it. I was a little annoyed when they launched the app because I didn't want it to be a bundler where I was, forced to, I liked that it was email and the independence and openness of email and I was a bit concerned that it was gonna try to be a kind of aggregator in kind of old school sense or bundler.
But I really like the app personally. I use it a lot. I think what I like most about it from a consumer perspective is just the. incredibly good content, people that really have something to say, uh, informality to how the content's created. there's a, just a diversity of, points of view.
when I think about the time I spend between say, a Twitter an Ft, a Wall Street Journal, New York Times, you know, other, sundry properties on the open web, like the Verge or something else like that, or the Atlantic or something, I find I'm spending a lot more time on it.
there are at least, a dozen people that are meaningful and part of my, media consumption via the platform. it's important to how I, uh, move through the world. I like it a lot.
[00:10:04] Brian: So I think a lot of people fixate on, Substack's a fairly modest size business, most estimates are around 20 million, let's say 20 to 25 million, In revenue, not the total amount of revenue generated but 90% goes to the publisher or the creator. Substack announced that it has 20 million monthly active subscribers, now, 2 million paid subscriptions, to writers.
That's not paid subscribers. because people have multiple subscriptions. they're saying that they want to be a new economic engine for culture. It's a highfalutin concept much more so than we want to be an E s P. Alex, talk a little bit about what it means to actually be a platform. Cause I think a lot of times platform has been.
Thrown around a lot. I mean, even the agencies have claimed that, like their ad campaigns nowadays are platforms. but there's specific things. I mean, that you have to do as a
platform and you have to serve a bunch of different, economic needs and constituencies.
[00:10:59] Alex: I don't know how I would define a platform. I think it can take up many different, forms. And in this case, I think as a creator platform, it needs to provide creation tools and distribution tools, at that stage it becomes,a platform. if you just have a, template, that manages a newsletter, and a recipient list and then sends a weekly newsletter, I think it's harder to call that a platform. But I think the second they started having a pretty decent website and a pretty decent app that collects all of these creators into a single space, to me it felt much more like a platform.
But I wouldn't know what exactly what the definition is exactly. Anything can be called a platform. But I think it did, it did change the way I saw them.
[00:11:37] Brian: if you're gonna be a
platform, you have to provide the tools of creation. Yes. You need to have mechanisms for
distribution
built in.
and then there's the M word that I am personally very into, which is monetization. You need to provide a pathway for these people to monetize
on your
platform.
[00:11:56] Troy: Well, they've side stepped the ad stack completely.
There's no connection to the old world of digital advertising whatsoever.
[00:12:02] Alex: which, it's interesting because we keep, mentioning, and I think every time somebody talks about CK they remind everyone that it's still a small business. But I think it's business is, not relative to its influence. The amount of news that is being broken on ck
Whether it's platformer or,know, with all the Elon stuff or some of these other ones, that influence is huge. and a lot of it's available for free. At least, to some extent. my guess is that the reach is actually pretty big and it could be, A business that has, similar influence to Twitter at some point?
[00:12:31] Brian: Uh oh. They're not gonna like that. That's why they went for YouTube
as the
comparison.
YouTube's much more lucrative.
[00:12:36] Alex: well I think they want a comparison
with YouTube as well, because YouTube is seen as a
platform that pays, kind of the gold standard in paying creators, though it's very hard to make
money. Yeah.
[00:12:45] Brian: going back in, sort of history. I can remember the early days of YouTube where it was regularly dismissed for that. Remember that dog on the skateboard? I met that dog by the way.
[00:12:56] Alex: yeah,
[00:12:56] Brian: yeah,
At a Mashable.
r i p Mashable, actually Mashables still
alive. at a
Mashable event.
[00:13:02] Alex: I met Grumpy Cat.
[00:13:03] Brian: I met Grumpy Cat too. We did a story about Grumpy
Cat.it is, grumpy Cat had feline dwarfism.
It was, um, struggled.
[00:13:11] Alex: This, this
episode's a
bummer. Let's Geez.
[00:13:16] Brian: we actually did a great, story on the, Grumpy Cat as a brand. My executive editor gave it a great headline. It was brand perfection and I don't usually like puns anyway. but I can remember the early days, YouTube was dismissed in some ways before, the Google purchase and even the Google purchase.
And Mark Cuban famously said it
was like the worst acquisition ever. he didn't get it at all because the business was tiny.
and
[00:13:37] Alex: ax to grind
because the broadcast.com. thing. Yeah, yeah,
[00:13:40] Brian: he's fine. He's got the
[00:13:41] Alex: He's okay. Yeah.
[00:13:44] Brian: there is some sort of similarities. I think the question ends up being for sub cycle, at least me to put it on as a publisher.
I don't like the idea of them getting between, I don't wanna be a subs stacker and I don't wanna be trading that. you always have to give up some amount of independence when you throw your lot in with a platform. And I think there are some guardrails in place with being able to easily,
divorce from sub and roll your own stack or move to beehive or some other convert kit
[00:14:10] Troy: Not a small
thing, I
would.
[00:14:11] Brian: what isn't a smart
small thing.
[00:14:12] Troy: That you can take your list and do whatever you want with it.
[00:14:15] Brian: Yeah.
[00:14:15] Troy: it's, I mean, you mentioned it. I'm just saying that it's, a defining, in addition to
the founders seemingly being, very sensitive to the needs of the community that use it, being able to take your list and go somewhere is, pretty significant.
[00:14:27] Brian: Yeah, I
mean that's the kind of
interoperability that was lacking in
Web 2.0.
[00:14:32] Alex: it feels a
little bit like, podcasting where, you can move your feet around the thing that's missing a little bit is that, currently it's funny because you guys are both talking as creators on the platform and how you appreciate, having that control and you don't want, the app to, become, uh, the central place.
But as a user, the only reason I'm using CK right now is because there's a great app it will read out Troy's extensive posts study that he publishes. It's the only way I would read, right now is through the
[00:15:00] Troy: Thanks. Thanks for the shout out, Alex.
[00:15:02] Alex: Yeah, I mean, they're really good Troy,
[00:15:04] Brian: I know they are. The last
one
was really
[00:15:06] Troy: Yeah.
[00:15:06] Brian: mean, It's like 14 minute, 14 minute read. You gotta be like in it to
win
it.
[00:15:11] Troy: I gotta tell you my, the post this week was brief and punchy I thought respectful of your time, Alex.
[00:15:16] Brian: it
was
just an
[00:15:17] Alex: Yeah,
[00:15:18] Brian: read.
[00:15:18] Alex: yeah. Just don't have any
attention.
[00:15:19] Troy: Brian was complaining earlier in the week about TDRs, which I did try once or twice, and I think they're kinda lame. If you don't
wanna read a couple paragraphs, then don't read the new.
[00:15:28] Brian: although I do think like sub, this is a little bit of a side, but, subs, I think we're reaching the end point of the essay.
[00:15:34] Alex: Yeah.
[00:15:34] Brian: I think everything got too long on subs and then a lot of it was pattern matching with, I blamed Ben Thompson to be honest with you.
[00:15:40] Alex: Yeah.
[00:15:41] Brian: became like a, it's a normal thing for writers to go up to word count, and when they see like1,450
versus 783, they think that they did just about twice as much work with 1,408
[00:15:52] Troy: especially when they add three or four references to things that they've written previously.
[00:15:57] Alex: true. And also, I wonder how access to new AI tools is going to make, incentivize people to write shorter essays. Because the second I see something that's longer than a five minute read, I will send it to chat g p t to munch up and create a, short version of it. I think maybe we could be entering the age of brevity where, we just need to be more respectful of people's time.
I think that is a massive issue. and people consume more media it doesn't have to be TikTok, but a 15 minute read is a bit much.
[00:16:25] Brian: Yeah, I think with all of this AI stuff obviously it's gonna change a lot when it comes to the content, creation and just the content economy. I think Substack is really well positioned and the reason I think so is because they've built it around individuals to a large degree. And what I've noticed is even with subscriptions, I don't charge for subscriptions right now, but I think that was ended up being a mistake cuz I thought you had to build like the top of the funnel, just my previous experience informed it.
But there are somewhat different dynamics and sub stack and I think that's what that pledges feature that they get, which is basically that even if someone doesn't have paid subscriptions, turned on, you can pledge your support or something and yet your credit card gets charged when and
if they do turn on subscriptions,
And it's a good, yeah, it's a good nudging tool because, if you don't charge people on subs, you're just a cost center for subs.
they want you to charge people. but I do think that, building it around individuals will end up benefiting it quite
a bit, because the dynamics are different,
with individuals
[00:17:21] Troy: Can you imagine if you could take any of your other social feeds and just grab the file,
in an equivalent way to taking your email list off Substack and just move it somewhere else? If you could take all your junk from Instagram or Facebook and just put it somewhere else, the world would be a different place.
[00:17:35] Alex: Yeah.
[00:17:36] Brian: Yeah. I would love to like just dump my, but they're totally different contexts. Like maybe dump your, Instagram followers in the LinkedIn.
[00:17:43] Troy: Yeah, the thing with Instagram is obviously it's a format, so it makes it more complicated. But yeah, it'd be cool.
[00:17:47] Alex: that's what's being proposed as, social media regulations with interoperability and all that type of stuff. I think,
[00:17:54] Troy: That was a big word for you.
[00:17:56] Alex: Yeah, it was, here's the challenge and maybe where they're, you could clearly see a place at a time where so many people use ck the app to read your article, that moving to another platform, would, seriously cut your
[00:18:10] Troy: That's a great point. That's one of the reasons that the app annoyed me I thought the virtue of the medium was that it went into your email box that wasn't owned by anybody and tying it to the app made it feel like there was, an additional bit of control taken away from me.
[00:18:22] Brian: so anytime cks founders post one of their periodic letters or whatever, I do a control F and I put email
in and then I put newsletter in. The last time zero for both
[00:18:32] Troy: I don't understand what that
means, What
[00:18:34] Alex: you
mean?
[00:18:34] Brian: I mean, I do control F find how many times did they mention email and how many times did they mention newsletter?
Zero.
[00:18:40] Alex: yeah.
[00:18:41] Brian: just posted their latest manifesto about being an economic engine for culture. they didn't say email. They didn't say newsletter. And that's why they're clearly going in purely in a platform perspective. They already have podcasts. They'll, they're testing video,
I think ultimately that's fine. Like I think that, people have to make decisions. If, what is important to you is having that truly direct connection that you fully own, cuz you do not fully own it with subs tech. I know they say that you do, but they regularly email,
people That.
have subscribed to my newsletter without my consent
[00:19:11] Troy: That.
when did they do that? Someone told me
[00:19:14] Brian: well no, they do it with recommendations. Hey
you, we see that you read the rebooting. Maybe you should, read these other
things.
[00:19:20] Troy: keep away from my people.
[00:19:21] Alex: But don't you find that they're bringing some value by bringing an audience over to
you, Troy
[00:19:25] Brian: a hundred,
oh
[00:19:26] Alex: or Brian? Sorry. I mean, Troy just seems to be more, negative around it. So
that's,
[00:19:32] Brian: I know. This is like, why am I the optimist?
[00:19:34] Troy: Good
question.
[00:19:35] Brian: lagged.
[00:19:36] Troy: Yeah. why
[00:19:37] Brian: Heineken
[00:19:39] Troy: What's the question, Alex? Is it that?
[00:19:42] Alex: I understand the benefits of owning your own list and, uh, feeling somewhat threatened by the app. you know, at some point the. offers up an element of growth, managing all the kind of transactional stuff, that is worth it, and you're like, fuck it.
I don't wanna host my own videos. YouTube is fine. Nobody thinks about hosting their own videos nowadays, Unless you're a streamer.
[00:20:01] Troy: guess I just want it all, Alex, Yeah. I very much appreciate it. It's a free service. and they can do what they want. Cause it's a free service and I can elect to manage my email in another way. I just don't want them to, it's like the first time I pressed that chat button on there, a bunch of people told me they got an email from me that I, that was me inviting them to chat.
And it's just not what I wanted. my gig is, low frequency, quality weekly email. And I don't want. People getting a bunch of emails from me, that's just not my jam.
[00:20:26] Alex: the problem is they probably hired some, growth product managers and that, means you gotta be ready for all that type of stuff.
[00:20:32] Brian: Yeah, well, I mean, I will say this, so Mario Gabrieli, I don't, I don't know how to pronounce Mario's last name, he was one of the ym leaving subs in 2021, and now we're getting the, why I'm coming back, tock, . and it's all cyclical. And basically his rationale is know, subs went through a period where, in my view, they were not focused on the product.
They were focused on a lot of. Growth of the brand They were cutting checks to big,individuals. Not literally physically big, but that did a lot of like political fighting And they, took their eye off the ball on the product side because the product is, good, but it's not great.
And they weren't shipping enough features. And in the last year they've shipped a lot of stuff. And, whether it is chat, I think chat is, eh, I don't really like it personally. I tried it. I thought, oh, this could be a really good community feature. I think it's not there yet. I can't figure it out and I don't see others, doing it.
it's one of those things, people try it a bunch of times, but then they don't stick with it. Recommendations is the home run, that's the lock in. I have 14,300 or something. Subscribers. 6,000 have come from recommendations.
[00:21:36] Troy: Lord. That's cool.
[00:21:37] Brian: and this is the strange thing of the, the TCK economy, So there's a guy who does the, it's called the pragmatic Engineer Gurgly. And he's got I don't know, 200,000 something subscribershe recommends Alex Kantrowitz, who writes big technology. Okay. So Alex gets a bunch of subscribers and that, and Alex then recommends the rebooting.
And so I get like a s a smaller subset of that, and then I recommend people versus
algorithms.
[00:22:05] Troy: Woohoo. Yeah. I think you gave me like 250 subs or something. No, maybe more. Six 500.
[00:22:10] Brian: 650. I
checked it
Oh, I love that you know this. Yeah. And only 300 to come back my
way.
[00:22:15] Troy: Well, I mean, you started with the big list. You're like an editor guy.
I'm just like come on,
[00:22:20] Brian: Yeah, but you're like a
[00:22:21] Alex: the product just seems really good for me as a reader. it creates a nice website, Doesn't let you go too crazy with it. I think it's great. It just lets me read stuff. it's got that app that reads the articles for me. That's great.
there's also an RSS feed, That's created for it so you can use your own reader.
[00:22:38] Brian: Alex, you're gonna be like the last person using rss, aren't you? You and Dave Weiner.
[00:22:42] Alex: I mean, if you want
interrupt
[00:22:43] Brian: invented it.
[00:22:45] Alex: interoperability, it's rss. It's a great standard.
[00:22:48] Brian: I think you could actually make a case
that digital media went downhill once R s s
failed
and it did fail.
[00:22:55] Troy: the first victim of Substack's success is for sure Medium. it's worth contrasting those two
platforms because Medium was elegant and it tried to roll individual contribution into a kind of broader product to try to create simple, subscription mechanisms. but if you're starting out and you wanna write stuff now, I just noticed more and more people are moving, tock and obviously the premise is slightly different than Medium.
It's not kind of a. Community blogging platform. It's an email platform, first and foremost. that small difference, seems to have, given it, a lot of fuel. I think that medium faces a very uncertain future.
[00:23:32] Brian: Is that a
euphemism,
[00:23:33] Troy: Yeah. Well, Yeah. You, you, you gave me shit last week for, for
[00:23:38] Brian: Is that like brusk? Is that like when we called you
brusk in
uh,
that profile?
[00:23:42] Troy: Brian. I'm very soft now. You call me
soft scrub.
[00:23:45] Alex: I'm very fond of Medium, and I, remember, in the early days before I joined Airbnb, I was actually talking to them about joining them.
[00:23:52] Troy: Well, there's a good decision you made Alex
[00:23:54] Alex: well, I mean, I don't know if the decisions was entirely
[00:23:56] Troy: Well, it also came with a, it turns out
it came with a family
office.
[00:24:00] Brian: Yeah. I, would've been like, Alex, can you pass the banana and Comfort Plus
[00:24:04] Alex: Hey, Troy knows I don't make financial decisions. I make, emotional decisions. but I had great, great dinner with Eve Williams who founded it and they were building a team and they cared about writing and design. and if you look at what they've been trained to do, it was very similar to CK and ahead.
It did Substack only win because they said, oh, well, we'll drop it in your in inbox. Is that it? That was just
a simple proposition. That's nuts.
[00:24:30] Brian: distribution always wins. Distribution always
wins,
[00:24:34] Alex: But everybody felt like email was a broken
Distribution medium because it? was just filled with junk.
[00:24:39] Brian: really? Who's everyone? People in Silicon Valley, guess what? Every single platform
put in to their growth immediately. Email,
[00:24:45] Alex: Yeah,
but isn't, isn't that because every,
not because there's nothing left. that's the last open
[00:24:52] Brian: Yeah. But isn't that an, an aspect of Silicon Valley? Just always being like, what's cool and what's not? And rather
than what's useful cuz like everyone was into apps and meanwhile, like if you were in B2B publishing, you always talked about email from the start it never was anything other than email because you can tweet until
the cows come home and nobody's
gonna do shit.
But if you send out an email, stuff
happens,
people buy stuff.
[00:25:15] Alex: am I wrong
to think that email has had a resurgence in the last five years?
[00:25:19] Brian: I think it's had a rediscovery among certain groups of people. But there's been a large group of people who never, no Retailers Retailers know this all the time, email
drives action. it's always driven action. It is a push medium, not a,
pull,
[00:25:34] Troy: So, is it fair to say that people finally got the email.
[00:25:36] Brian: maybe,
[00:25:37] Alex: but, but hang on. I think maybe a coup a few things changed,
And I wonder if that helped. okay. Rediscovery, getting too excited about new stuff. Sure. but I also wonder if it's, a double whammy of, email clients getting much better at pulling out spam, from valid newsletters.
and then on the other side, all of these other platforms feeling very closed down. and then with G D P R and all that stuff, you would no longer be able to target your own customers. and email was the last bastion, Like r says feeds, nobody cares about them. So email is kind of the last little nugget that you can own.
Is that why?
[00:26:13] Brian: Yeah, everyone looking for the new great thing and it was gonna be apps and
all this. no, it's gonna be video on platforms and because
email has always
worked
and
it's
always,
but it's always been boring. It is.
It's just.
[00:26:26] Troy: you know what, I think I want to ask you guys a
question about this because all this talk about cks got me thinking about their future. you could imagine if you just kind of close your eyes and imagine a world where, CK is five times more dominant in terms of shaping the cultural discussion, as they are today.
they have ex-presidents and important cultural figures and thought leaders and academics and everything using the platform. they've added video. So that, that has become a bigger part of, the communication, palette. people started getting used to consuming audio in there as well.
Maybe they find a way to get short form in somehow. I don't like, which is kind of, maybe that's not really an accurate way to frame the, what chat is there. But like Brian said, I think you have a really interesting, global platform for people with ideas that want to communicate them really easily.
And a platform that has side stepped the clutter and nonsense of, the open web's ad bullshit ecosystem.
And, and so you, that's what you got, The problem with it. And listen, even if it was a hundred million dollar business in that world, which is their take on their overall gmv, Enormous subscription kind of footprint that they oversee.
it's still relatively speaking a small business, but you know, because it's a platform business where they have really no meaningful content costs, could be a very profitable a hundred million business. Is that enough for them? Is that enough for their, VC funders? Is that an accurate way to think of the future of this platform, or does it, does it need to be or want to be more than that?
[00:27:59] Brian: Well, I think that's the scary part, right? is that Their round was, the last round that they closed was at, I think a 674 million valuation. Andreessen Horowitz is their main backer. They tried to raise a billion dollar, an a billion dollar round and they didn't get takers and so they cut 14%, which I, I think actually was good for them cuz I noticed that since then they actually have become way more focused on the product and less about the other stuff.
And so, weirdly they didn't get the money, but they actually have improved the product to me more so since, they didn't get the funding. I think what is gonna be interesting is their current model cannot get them to their ambition. So for me, like being on the platform, leave aside as a consumer, I wonder how are they gonna make up, how are they gonna build this into that kind of business That is a $674 million evaluation.
And the only way that they're gonna do that is by bundling. They're gonna end up having to bundle subscriptions. I don't know how they're gonna do it. Maybe you guys have an
idea, but they have to do
that.
[00:29:02] Troy: That's right. So that I could subscribe to 10 authors
for 19 bucks a month and I could pick and choose them, add and drop them. At which point I think that there's a meaningful revenue stream there, particularly as video becomes more important part of of the platform.
[00:29:17] Alex: some sort of, distribution based on reads for the different writers.
[00:29:21] Brian: It's gonna be something because like the model has such a flaw in it in. There's gonna be outliers, but like most people will convert five and 10% between five and 10% of their audience. That leaves an unmonetized 90 to 95% of the audience. Now, I don't know how ideological you would have to be to be like, no, I'm
not gonna make money off.
95% of the audience that is
ridiculous.
It
[00:29:45] Alex: the pressure, it's really difficult though because, if you look at the,
the top newsletters, there's a few of them that are, have thousands of, readers and are charging like $15, $12 a month. I think it's going to be really hard to get those folks that are making, oftentimes one or two people are making two, $300,000 a month, to move to their bundle.
Number one. number two, all the people that are doing this as a free newsletter probably don't want to, be behind a bundle. They wanna remain free because they're doing it for Rachel audience or whatever. so how do you convert that? it's gonna be a very hard,transition.
my guess is w be that all these big players might want to just drop out if that's the way it goes. cuz nobody wants to end up in a place where it's Spotify and they make sense on, on the dollars that they used to make direct. Does that make sense?
[00:30:30] Brian: Yeah, that makes sense. But I think sub's big problem is not with their biggest creators. I mean, they have to do a different thing. They have to cut different deals. Probably econ, the economics should be different because it's one thing to give 10% away. If you're generating a hundred thousand dollars.
If you're generating a million dollars and you're cutting a hundred thousand dollars check for, handling
subscriptions, then you might be like, okay, well I'm not sure if, if I'm getting as much out of this
[00:30:57] Troy: I think you'd see in those situations that it's 10% to a max. . but imagine other revenue streams though too. Imagine if you could, in addition to the, the bundling, mechanism that would probably help out a lot of people. that they had a Shopify integration, which isn't, too hard to, fathom.
so that you could find ways to bring products, easily into your newsletter flow. And it wasn't, crappy banners or something that were inserted. It was, relevant product recommendations that you made between 10 and 20% off of. And they took a cut of that and they created a marketplace around it.
it's not hard to see, that become a meaningful revenue stream. I wonder if they get video in there meaningfully, whether they would object to having some kind of pre-roll mechanism. Around video.
[00:31:44] Alex: There you go. Trying to fit ads into stuff. I love in part because it looks like it's that post future that I talk about,
[00:31:52] Brian: I run
ads,
[00:31:53] Alex: I know, I dunno.
[00:31:55] Brian: what did you call them? Modest, tasteful, what do we call them?
[00:31:59] Alex: It's, it's a point of contention, but, I think
we, we'll run ads, at some point. But, but,
I just wanna break to cut to a read here for the bra, men's shaver. I'll just turn it
[00:32:13] Troy: on.
[00:32:14] Alex: m
[00:32:14] Brian: wrong with
ads.
[00:32:16] Troy: Best shaver on the
market.
[00:32:17] Alex: Nice. you for
that.
[00:32:19] Brian: Yeah. as long as the ads are not intrusive. I go back and forth to this about weather sub will cave. I make a regular joke that the first step to running ads
is to say you'll never run ads, cuz usually that that has turned out to be
true, in the long
history
[00:32:33] Alex: out true with, uh, with Netflix.
[00:32:34] Brian: Yeah,
everyone does
that.
[00:32:35] Alex: It's one of those things that you kind of wish there were still small businesses or the space for small businesses. And that, they ran something like CK Lean and they didn't outgrow the core of what they can do well. and continued there, there could be a, a platform of huge influence.
that provides a service. my theory is that scale ruins everything.
[00:32:56] Troy: Well, let me, let me ask another future oriented question just because, I hear what you're saying, Alex, around not liking to read or not being able to read and,
[00:33:07] Brian: what is that?
[00:33:08] Troy:
[00:33:08] Brian: Was it Alex is
illiterate?
What
is
[00:33:10] Troy: No. No. I mean,
[00:33:11] Alex: this?
is going.
[00:33:13] Troy: I think it's, it's, uh, It's
an
esl. It's a, yeah. And Brian, you suggested earlier in the episode that, that the
essay is a dying format. just as I learned.
[00:33:24] Brian: I,
[00:33:24] Troy: I guess I kind of write an essay, is that what I do? Said an essay anyway. And I've heard from lots of my friends and it really bothers me when smart people I know are like,
oh, it's just so much work to read your newsletter. Which either means I, I need to find better flow, or it's probably not efficient enough, or they just don't give a fuck what I have to say, or they're not interested, which is fine.
but, I wonder if CK will endeavor to create a new format that, potentially is still, email driven, but, endeavors to shorten or break up the post in a way that they control. In other words, Twitter's just a format that, well Twitter, if you imagine, them trying to create a.
Feed of content that was shorter than email and delivered inside of their app. Can you imagine a future where they enforce or create a format that offers shorter briefer, maybe more visual, content for, consumers?
[00:34:20] Brian: Yes, I could. Do, you know what? I think it is? they have a very not very well executed thing that I wanna try, I wanna try it with you actually. It's this letters thing where it's actually people. I think they're basically redoing the, promise of the
blogosphere. That word just seems so old.
part of
that
was
[00:34:37] Troy: Do people ever call you a blogger? Do you like it when,
[00:34:40] Brian: Uh, I hate it. I hate it.it's better than sub
stacker.
[00:34:44] Troy: No, a suber sounds nice.
[00:34:45] Brian: really?
[00:34:46] Troy: Well, it's better than blogger. If you're a blogger, it makes me feel like you, I don't know, you run a knitting
circle or something.
[00:34:53] Brian: Yeah. There's, well, it was pejorative for a long time, to be dismissed as a blogger. although as an aside, have you checked out all these Russian war bloggers? there's an entire cadre of war bloggers they want more war, not less war. They're very pro-war but they're very influential in Russia.
And I was like, what? What were these war
bloggers doing before, the invasion? were they just like hanging out? Wait.
[00:35:17] Alex: there's always somebody
hanging out? for Kind of wishing that shit goes
down
[00:35:21] Troy: it might have been like Call of Duty bloggers or something.
[00:35:24] Brian: I don't know. They just got repurposed and, but I think I can see them coming up with a format that's very mobile first that is I semi joke around that. I think a great piece of media that's not perfectly executed is the text thread that we do that actually, precedes this podcast. I think that they could do something where you have basically people on the platform
who are having a conversation that people subscribe to.
[00:35:52] Alex: Is reading a conversation fund though, isn't it true Troy that interviews don't do that? Well,
[00:35:58] Troy: Yeah, they're a tough format. I mean, some people can, can execute them really well, but they are hard. and they're kind of boring. Like the classic magazine interview format, cover story format's really typically really boring. yeah, I think our text thread, but there's a lot
[00:36:10] Brian: It's not an interview format. It's what's,
[00:36:14] Alex: Yeah, but you know what, you know what? Like when I wake up in the morning and you guys are up a little bit earlier than I am, and I wake up in the morning and there's 47 messages of, two men rambling about, media and I just,
[00:36:28] Brian: It's gonna be a good, that's a great
brand.
[00:36:30] Troy: god, I would love to
[00:36:31] Brian: Two men Ram Blu.
[00:36:32] Alex: guys are like, the guys in
the
[00:36:34] Brian: Two white men. two
[00:36:35] Alex: complaining.
[00:36:36] Brian: age white men
[00:36:37] Alex: It's like there should be more ads. Why is there? So I want more
ads in the world. Ads are great.
how it
[00:36:44] Troy: We've never said
that, Alex. Don't
[00:36:46] Alex: Yeah. I miss, I miss popups. that's what you said. .
[00:36:51] Brian: Yeah, that's another good, that's another good, brand.
[00:36:54] Troy: Yeah, I,
[00:36:55] Brian: pre-roll
[00:36:56] Troy: is an excellent texture.
Very good,
he's funny and he
likes to kind of categorize things and make these bold, he is gestural or not gestural. He just, he's good at
the,
[00:37:05] Brian: Pastoral.
[00:37:05] Troy: he's good at the aphorism.
[00:37:07] Alex: Yes. Absolutely. that is true. I'll give him that.
[00:37:09] Brian: Okay, so that, that's not a good format. Then. what's a new
format
that
[00:37:12] Alex: I'm telling you.
All right. Here's the thing. I would pay for, I pay for one subscription. I never read the long emails. I don't even need, I don't, no. I mean, if I wanna read like
[00:37:23] Troy: Have you ever
[00:37:24] Alex: or whatever,
[00:37:24] Troy: email to rebooting before? Have you ever read
[00:37:26] Alex: I, I, I I read it. I read. It's good. I, no, what I mean, I listen to it guys. I just listen
to
[00:37:33] Brian: What is the listening? Wait is the sub like
reads to
[00:37:35] Alex: Yeah. It's an AI voice. It's great in the.
[00:37:38] Troy: it's not great. Actually, reading is, is actually pleasurable. Alex, if you practice it for a while,
[00:37:42] Alex: yeah, I mean, so is,
[00:37:44] Brian: yeah. You learn new
words,
[00:37:46] Alex: yeah. So is making your own coffee? I don't do it all the time. I do think, that I would pay for a digest that, let's say, they sign up platformers and stuff like that, where they don't just give, the full, newsletter, but they give you a digest every day.
I'd pay five bucks a month for that. just give me a digest of all these people I follow and ck compile it into a nice thing. Read it out with, a really, nice AI voice
[00:38:09] Troy: you know, I'd rather not be part of your digest. I'd like to be. Well, I want more love from you. I want more intimacy. I want
[00:38:16] Alex: but it's like, you are like people that say oh, my movies are only for the cinema. streamers are not allowed to use it. it's not where we
are
[00:38:23] Troy: Brian, what do you, think about Alex's reluctance
[00:38:25] Brian: Well, I think he's being a little bit of a hypocrite cuz I remember when I complained about how everything was dark in Game of Thrones. You were telling me about how the makers have these craft and artistic, desires for it to be like on a big scr. Like it's on my tv.
I can't see anything that's going. So
why can they like make it? why can't
Troy make
his 17 minute
[00:38:46] Alex: I don't think I was proda. I thought they were, taking the piss. I was just saying that's why this stuff happens.
You know what? I was a little worried about this
[00:38:53] Brian: Are you more
worried
now?
[00:38:57] Troy: No, actually something else happened, which just suggests to me that I need to chill out about
things. if you just kind of ponder one thing and discuss one thing for a little bit, you can kind of, start to understand it better, and have a good conversation about it. You don't have to like, bullet point, bullet point, bullet point.
Make a fact, talk about the future of media. you can just kind of have a discussion about something and it's nice.
[00:39:19] Brian: Yeah.
Exploration, not
explanation. That's my
[00:39:23] Alex: Hmm.
[00:39:23] Brian: from someone.
[00:39:24] Troy: Yeah.
[00:39:25] Brian: this should be an interesting episode. do we have more on subs?
[00:39:28] Troy: Can we put a that as I like to,
[00:39:30] Brian: Okay. let's finish up on this, on the subs before we get into, good product. I guess let's do an evaluation. Are, do they have a shot at being a meaningful company in whatever is coming next? I feel like it's going to be, and, and it's just like mostly
on gut vibe.
[00:39:47] Troy: what would the crossover moment be? my gut is, yes, it will be. I think there's moments where you see like people in your lives are using, certainly not just subscribing to the odd email, but using the app. the word CK becomes a bigger part of, culture and media conversation.
Your kids use it, I think it'll remain, uh, Particularly if it's text-based service and email led, it'll be, uh, a service that caters to, older people and, people that are, into the written word. And too much of our culture, broadly is about short, snappy, video driven communications.
And yeah, I think CK can occupy a niche, but it's not gonna be masked the same way. TikTok is masked.
[00:40:26] Brian: Oh no.
[00:40:27] Alex: it doesn't need, to be right.
And I think
[00:40:29] Brian: it's not gonna be mass,
but that's different. I don't mean you don't have to be mass to be like influential and an important
[00:40:35] Alex: But isn't it
already influential and important?
[00:40:37] Brian: hmm. I mean,
Somewhat, but not really, I don't
think. No, I mean in some circles, but I don't think it's broadly
[00:40:44] Troy: no, not yet.
[00:40:45] Brian: important.
[00:40:45] Alex: Well, I don't think it will be unless it does a lot of the things that you guys don't want it to.
[00:40:49] Troy: Like what
[00:40:50] Alex: well I think that if it remains a tool, to me, like the way I define a tool here is something that's neutral. you can move, you can upgrade, you can kind of jump around,
[00:40:58] Brian: MailChimp.
[00:40:59] Alex: MailChimp. Yeah, I can move from MailChimp to the other whatever.
[00:41:02] Brian: target,
[00:41:03] Alex: exactly, it needs to sell to the enterprise because that's their lock-in because enterprise customers don't switch around, but. This is very much like an, a product for individual writers connecting with individual readers.
And that means that neither of those cohorts are particularly, loyal unless there's some sort of hook, Unless the platform has such a flywheel effect that it brings you a ton of audience, cost, that you pay is, mitigated by how much money you make on it.
[00:41:30] Brian: But like, What is the lock in with Shopify? Why do merchants stay on
Shopify? Because to me, Shopify and CK are kind of similar in some ways. I
mean, Shopify's
whole thing is we're gonna, we're gonna,
arm the rebels. Yeah. But Shopify makes, we could set up the
people versus algorithm store,
after the show and have it live at the end of the
day.
that's amazing.
Try that on Marketo . It's not gonna
happen.
[00:41:53] Alex: right. It's easier.
then that's like a user interface. Shopify has the e-commerce stack is much more complicated than the stack that CK offers, the cost of switching is much lower. Something like sub stack than Shopify. And Shopify is just a good product and they are constantly improving it.
Shopify is probably a, a larger product and they have a large enterprise customer base, I would think, like all that stuff has, has higher switching cost than something like CK.
[00:42:18] Troy: Yeah, for sure.
[00:42:19] Alex: I think they need to do the stuff you guys don't want them to do, and they need to do them in a way that makes it so inherently hard to switch or costly or painful that you don't, otherwise, somebody could build a, even a app that will just subscribe to all your CK feeds and load it up and do all sorts of different features on it.
that's
[00:42:36] Troy: Well, you should do that cuz it's totally possible. You can run AI on it and summarize it, get the counterpoint, all that kind of stuff. That's the middle layer, that contextualizes text content that you don't like to read. Alex is going to emerge very quickly every modern quote unquote share this of the world is gonna put, try to put buttons around content give you what.
[00:42:58] Alex: Oh yeah, I mean, the convenience of a shared tool that just gives you, a bite-size version of what you're about to click into, is going to be hugely disruptive to all this stuff. So my guess is that they're starting to think about moats and they're trying to think about how to do it, uh, within a framework that doesn't alienate their biggest creators.
However, I I, the, the issue is that 600 million valuation,
[00:43:18] Troy: It's not that much that's easy to get through.
[00:43:20] Brian: really
[00:43:21] Troy: Yeah, well, I mean, depending on the growth rate and if they can run a,
[00:43:25] Alex: how much would they need to make to be, valued at 600 million?
[00:43:29] Troy: well, again, it depends on the growth. It depends on the growth rate. But let's say they were making 25 million of profit on 50 million in revenue. you could get to that pretty quick. I wrote about this kind of new emerging middle powered by AI in the People Versus Algorithms newsletter, which is available for free on CK if you choose to read it.
I would encourage all of you that haven't done so already to take a look and sign up for a free subscription.
[00:43:53] Alex: or, or just listen to it as well. It
[00:43:55] Troy: Yeah. Also, if you get the chance to look at the Rebooting newsletter, which is also a very good
product, something I'd encourage you to read, written in a very conversational style by the one and only very smart and insightful, journalist editor and, longtime observer of the media industry.
Brian Morrisey
[00:44:10] Brian: Thank you. It comes with some tasteful advertising,
[00:44:14] Alex: you guys are making me, uh, feel like I
want to write a sub stack now.
[00:44:18] Brian: You should.
[00:44:19] Alex: I
[00:44:20] Brian: Well, lemme just, should we move this, this,
this
[00:44:22] Troy: Have you gotten your Braun Razor
yet?
[00:44:24] Alex: what does that mean? Move
That could be anything. Troy, what does it mean moving your podcast to sub tock? I see, I see. That's another thing I wanted to raise. What is podcasting on
[00:44:36] Troy: it's embedded into the, into the newsletter product and you listen to it there. So when you send out the newsletter,everybody can listen to the podcast. It's a distribution mechanism for an, for a podcast.
[00:44:47] Alex: But it also is your podcast still available everywhere else?
[00:44:50] Brian: Yes. it
replaces Captivate.
[00:44:52] Alex: Or, or another kind of podcast
host?
[00:44:54] Brian: All right, let's do good pro. We'll table that
one. Is that what they say?
[00:44:57] Troy: alright. Table that.
[00:44:59] Good Product
[00:45:00] Troy: given that I'm in France, I probably should say that I, really love, fresh baked, crispy quel or penda chocolate or, even the, power washer that sits next to my toilet. but I think that the product this week is something actually that my, my wife actually doesn't like them.
She doesn't like that I use them cuz she thinks they're wasteful in landfill. And I, I'm not sure I know what the exact name is, It's the dental floss thing
[00:45:22] Brian: Oh, I hate that
[00:45:24] Troy: You know, the
ones, the
the plastic ones, what are they called?
[00:45:27] Brian: Um,
[00:45:27] Alex: floss sticks.
[00:45:28] Troy: Yeah, yeah. The ones that, have the hook on them that you
used.
[00:45:31] Alex: So they all, they like gum makes them,
[00:45:34] Troy: I find it's the only way I ever floss my teeth. You know what's interesting, just a quick little anecdote while you guys were talking. I thought I would look it up and because I'm in France, it returns all these, French websites the first search response for this type of plastic, dental let's call it a flosser, was from Shine.
The, uh, venerable huge, e-commerce brand that sell flossers in France. a bag of them for a dollar 75, 50 pieces. that's kind of amazing that they have that skew. The one thing I like about flossers, I know it's a bit of plastic that the world doesn't need, but I find that, it really is the only way I ever floss my teeth.
[00:46:07] Alex: I'm with you, Troy, but did you know that you could get, eco-friendly ones that are, made with, biodegradable, materials? So we'll make that into show notes because I don't want to be part of this kind of plastic pollution thing. and they're min flavored in case you want them, they're called, natural dental floss Picks on Amazon.
[00:46:24] Troy: No good. I think that
[00:46:26] Alex: there you go. There you go.
[00:46:27] Troy: compromise with Jill.
[00:46:28] Alex: Yeah, exactly. That's what we're here for.
[00:46:30] Brian: Should we leave it there so Troy can get his steak tartar?
Thanks so much for listening. Hope you enjoyed this conversation. we hope to continue the conversation with you next.
[00:46:38] Troy: Last night I had dinner with a guy from India who, I ordered steak tartar. And he thought that was a good
idea too, and it
got to the table and he was
he found it quite off putting that it wasn't cooked
[00:46:51] Alex: Well, I, yeah, sure.
[00:46:53] Troy: Anyway.
[00:46:55] Alex: Yes.
[00:46:55] Troy: All
right.
Thanks for listening.
[00:46:57] Alex: Bye guys.
[00:46:58] Troy: Bye.


PVA S1E27
PVA S1E27
[00:00:00] Alex: I was back in Philadelphia, where I grew up and my older brother is like a big fan of the podcast. And do you know what he said to me? He said, I really, really like the guy, Alex,
Wow.
[00:00:09] Troy: you didn't come up. Troy
Hmm.
[00:00:10] Alex: does it make you feel, Troy?
[00:00:11] Troy: I'm pro you, Alex. I'm up with Alex. I'm happy if you're happy, Alex.
[00:00:16] Alex: So you've always been supportive. I might be the Beyonce of this Destiny's child. That's the problem.
[00:00:22] Brian: I got some feedback on, the sub, episode. and it was from Alan Walk. Alan, thank you for writing any text to me. He said, just listen to your people versus algorithms podcast. as for subs, stacker versus blogger, there is some nuance subs. Stacker has come to mean, and this is a quote, actual journalist who is out of work and trying to make it on their own.
a blogger meant quote person with no journalism background, who somehow now thinks they're a journalist. and he, he meant this
[00:00:49] Troy: you for that. Who, what?
[00:00:50] Brian: He meant that as a compliment. Alan Wal
I appreciate
[00:00:53] Troy: Alan.
[00:00:53] Brian: I was like, well, gee, thanks. and he said, no, I meant it as a compliment, so I'll take it as, as it was meant
[00:00:59] Alex: so you're an unemployed journalist,
[00:01:01] Brian: It'sno, no, no. Don't worry about it. You're just like an unemployed journalist. I was like, oh, okay. Thanks
[00:01:06] Alex: I mean, that's how I see you. So I'm, it tracks.
[00:01:09] Brian: It's okay. No, we'll get into this episode. I'm a small business, owner.
[00:01:12] Troy: every time there's three characters in a piece of content or a narrative, there's always gonna be people that like and see themselves in the characters that like different characters. So I'm glad Alex has people that appreciate his sort of Eurocentric view and, and uh, sort of deep liberal grounding.
I think that's, that's cool.
[00:01:30] Brian: All right. We're gonna get into all of that this week,
Oh boy. Yeah.
and we're all gonna assume like our roles. I'm on the pitchfork.
[00:01:38] Alex: Yeah. Burn it all down.
[00:01:39] Welcome
[00:02:01] Brian: Welcome to People versus Algorithms, a conversation about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Marcy. I write the Rebooting newsletter and host the Rebooting podcast. Each week I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young, writer of the People versus Algorithms Newsletter, and Alex Schleifer, former head of design at Airbnb and founder of Universal Entities.
This week we are discussing the big business story of the week, the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank. One of the reasons I'm drawn to this story like the previous implosion at FTX, is how these event. Were previously simple news stories of utmost importance to those directly affected, and then with cascading relevance for the larger impact they will have on the economy and society.
But now I find these news events serve more as prompts for the discussions that we have. The collapse of Silicon Valley Bank immediately led to the formation of narratives for those Predisposed to view Silicon Valley with skepticism, and I am probably one of them, although pretty mildly. The narrative revolves around poor risk management and the utter hypocrisy and self-interested fear mongering.
We saw among a small group of very loud investors who spend far too much time on Twitter, journalists are most moved not by political affiliation, but always by hypos. Now for others, the narrative revolves around the media and its supposed vendetta against the tech industry may be motivated by jealousy, may be motivated by the media's loss of prestige and power at the hands of tech, or maybe even, it's just basically that.
There's been incredibly negative impact of many Silicon Valley innovations, on the news business. Now, politicians, meanwhile, they're experts at shaping narratives. This is what they do, and immediately those on the left saw the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank. As yet another example of the disastrous deregulation that's happened over generation.
While those on the right, well, they're pinning this all on what? Wokeness this week, Troy, Alex and I discussed the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank from our own narrative perspectives. As always, I welcome your feedback. My email is brian@therebooting.com, and if you enjoy this podcast, and I hope you do, please recommend it to others, and leave us a rating and review on Apple, Spotify, or wherever you listen to this podcast.
Thanks in particular to Anusha. Who DMed me recently to say that he enjoys both the rebooting show and this podcast. and he also added, the media expertise in a group chat. Feel is an amazing format. Thank you Anus, and I'm glad that you appreciate the conversational format that is intentional.
So here without further ado is our conversation.
[00:04:37] Intro End
[00:04:37] Brian: I think we have to start with Silicon Valley Bank. Troy, I know you're, reticent about this, but I think it's gonna go. just swimmingly because this was the, the big story. I mean, this was a bank, that collapsed late last week and it was just amazing. It started the week as having 26 billion in market cap and it ended the week under receivership.
I mean, talk about a bad week. and it was a classic background. I think a lot of times these financial crises are almost like impossible to unpack. I was back home with my parents. they understood exactly what went on. I think I pretty much understand what went on.
some people made some bad bets, you know, they borrowed short and they, they loaned long and they got caught in between because they assumed that the risk that basically didn't exist in a zero interest rate era. Be that way in perpetuity. And I think it's interesting time for this because when this happened this weekend, all the regular things came out.
Tech versus media, tech versus regulation, the utter hypocrisy of venture capitalists. and I wanna talk about that, all of it because I think it's an interesting time. And Iyou could argue this is a bit of an end of an era. it's an end of a long era of tech expansion things are gonna get a lot harder.
the people who claim that they were like all into risk, they were very into risk when it basically didn't exist, when everything's up and to the right risk is very, very different than it's going to be going forward. And so, just like the rest of us who have to deal with risk now, everyone's gonna have to deal with risk.
And I'm very excited for this. luckily, The government stepped in, the government stepped in. I, I've been hearing from a lot of people who are self-appointed spokespeople of Silicon Valley broadly, who have been railing against government, who have been railing against regulations. And guess what they were spending this weekend doing?
They were asking the government to help them out. So I'm hopeful when I trust it will happen that this will put away all this idea that there's no need for government and institutions and that regulations have a, a place to save capitalists from themselves. So that's my my point of view where I'm coming from.
What, what did you learn from this saga, Troy?
[00:06:41] Troy: I feel like you're a parent. You're asking me a hard question. one of the things that I think is interesting, albeit tangental to what you're saying is the inordinate amount of influence of, I don't know what the category creator media. Influencer media. , non-institutional media in shaping the dialogue around us say what you want about the All in guys.
But, I think their podcast is immensely influential. I'm not saying that there's a straight line to be drawn from them going on about the consequences of the bank failure and the, legislative response to it. on their podcast, which was released on Saturday. it is, listened to by, a very broad and deep audience.
And then I think that that conversation extends to Twitter where Sax Old's court, where Jason does. Jason thing. I found it just kind of shocking that actually I was having a real media experience last night where I was dying to watch the finale of, the last of us.
It happened to overlap with the Oscars, which had some good moments. So I was kind of toggling between the two. But at the same time, Jason had 5,000 people in a Twitter chat, talking about exactly this. it's interesting to see something of such a significance, and, how a small group of people in Silicon Valley really, shaped the policy response.
[00:07:59] Brian: I. It's also a small group of people who caused this problem, Venture capitalists created this mess. If they didn't panic that it never would've happened.
[00:08:06] Alex: first of all, why we're talking about this, I think it's a media story, And I find it interesting, first of all, how excited people were in the media about a bunch of people losing their money, especially because they were tech businesses. Uh, I, I think, I think, I think there was a lot
of that. I think there was a lot of that.
[00:08:23] Brian: You, you're, you're buying all the propaganda
[00:08:26] Alex: not buying, I'm not
[00:08:27] Troy: Uh, he's saying I think he's probably right. There was, there was some sort of media showed in Freud for sure.
[00:08:31] Alex: It frustrates me all the time about a lot of stuff that happens in the discourse is that, people and businesses get bucketed into these broad strokes
[00:08:39] Brian: Like the media you mean?
[00:08:41] Alex: Well, Like the media I agree. I mean? I agree, but it's not like the media doesn't do it with everyone else.
but it's
[00:08:46] Brian: it's a human condition.
[00:08:47] Alex: but since we're talking about tech, I find it funny how, how tech can be seen both as, you know, woke leftists, and out of touch hyper capitalist libertarian . You know, they can't be both.
[00:08:57] Brian: welcome to the media, we're like inconsequential, but then we're also part quote unquote the establishment against billionaires. somebody writing for Huffington Post is more powerful than someone worth like 2 billion.
[00:09:09] Alex: I defend the media against these attacks, but I think the problem is we have terrible spokespeople for technology as maybe we do for media. and everybody sees this like,oh yeah, Peter Teal's gonna get hurt. Peter Thiel's not gonna get hurt. the people that were gonna get hurt were the people I was talking to over the weekend that had 10, 5, 15 employees of which there were thousands in this thing.
And we could say, well, it's not gonna impact the economy much. but it's also SVB as a business was relatively well put together. There was a bank run, because, as investors saw, the tides turn, they did the right thing by telling the small companies to take their money out because,Not acting would've been not, not professional at this stage.
I have no love for VCs or billionaires, man. It's just, I felt that this time, there's such
[00:09:52] Brian: So
this was natural, disaster not caused by a small group of venture.
[00:09:56] Alex: we're
getting played. by folks like our all in friends, and folks in kind of the fringe edges of the media.
it's making it like us versus them. While I think media media's intricately linked to tech there was a ton of shot and Freud, a ton of people waiting like, oh yeah, let's let it all burn. I felt was a little,a little telling, That, the groups that didn't want to be generalized, in media were also quick to generalize all of tech, and I'm not for bailout. I think, that banks should be shut down.
[00:10:23] Brian: I think it's good to separate out quote unquote tech and people building businesses versus venture capitalists who are, they're basically real estate agents as far as I'm concerned. I mean, the real estate agents don't own the properties that they front. And just like the venture capitalists, they don't have the money.
It's other people's money that they play with. that's why they love a risk free era. they get a piece of the upside, there's no upside. They've got management fees. there's a reason that they were organizing this on the way up to the gondola, the gondola, the mountain.
Did you see that one?
so VC wasn't like available because he was in the gondola?
[00:10:53] Troy: the best analogy to a real estate agent is the investment banker, cuz they're the ones that sell fancy, complicated assets and they package them up. a good venture capitalist plays a really important role in capital allocation.
they make their money from carry. They don't make their money from the 2% fees that they take. But it's good to, I think for the audience to, to deconstruct why you think that this is a crisis that, that runs back to the door of, venture capital.
[00:11:18] Brian: this is the way I understand Silicon Valley Bank. Because I can remember, in early days of dig, I used to thinkwow, our biggest risk factor is the fact that half our money comes from Silicon Valley Bank because every single, the client base that existed at the company at the time, I don't know now, was mostly venture funded advertising technology firms.
All of them happened to keep their money in one bank, which was strange, I was like, wow. that's why one bank, I didn't really understand it. I think what's come out it's like pretty clear that. venture capitalists kept their money in these banks and they had, and sometimes required their portfolio companies to keep their money in this bank.
And the bank was like very quote unquote startup friendly. did things like offered, very nice mortgage deals that I don't get as a small business owner, but they got, because they were venture capital funded
[00:12:04] Troy: They had a
service offering tuned to the needs of technology in early stage
companies, including things like venture loans that
supported
[00:12:11] Alex: which is by the way, which is
[00:12:12] Troy: It's a
[00:12:13] Alex: in any
[00:12:14] Brian: Wait, you were
[00:12:14] Alex: It happens in any.
[00:12:16] Brian: Okay, great. so like I, I've seen Sam Altman who just closed like a $10 billion, rounds who was talking about the Farm Bureau of Stuff. I remember you were bringing that up. the way I understand what happened was Silicon Valley Bank made a.
they made a good bet for when, it was a basically a risk-free era and they decided to take long-term securities. Obviously with bank deposits, we don't talk about it a lot, but you're loaning money to a bank that's gonna then take it and use it for things like mortgages and stuff. And that's incredibly just a normal banking activity.
Banking should be boring. It should be a boring business now instead of having it in short-term securities, because you might need the money because it's not, people come and get it. They decided to, , basically because greed, they decided to try to get better yield, so they went into long-term securities.
That ended up being a really bad bet when interest rates started rising. Now, there's a group of people who say that you couldn't see that interest rates were going to rise in 2022. Now, I am not a macro economist, I was living in Miami, Florida at the time, and I saw a price of a fish sandwich going up 35%.
It was pretty clear that inflation was happening, it was pretty clear. the idea that interest rates were always gonna be at zero was idiotic. when they got caught with their pants down on this trade venture, capitalists then all decided to take their money out and tank the bank that they built. They screwed over their own portfolio companies who couldn't get their money out because they panicked. What am I missing?
[00:13:42] Alex: first of all, we're not a finance podcast, so I don't know if I ran a bank, if I would've noticed all these things. Hindsight is 2020. I also wanna make it clear that I'm not,
[00:13:52] Troy: Well, the only thing I would take from that is don't run a bank,
[00:13:55] Alex: yeah. Don't run a bank. I shouldn't run anything that involves money, but the topic for
[00:13:59] Troy: your family office.
[00:14:00] Alex: But the topic for me is more, svb, whether It was well run or badly run, that's one thing.
[00:14:06] Brian: It doesn't exist. I think we can now say it
[00:14:08] Alex: right?
the issue and what this exposes again, is that we like label people and put them into these giant monolith.
If they don't like Peter Teal, they see Peter Teal as the face of all VCs or sac or whoever it is. and the face of tech. Therefore, if you're a VC and you have a few portfolio companies, you're not fucking them over by telling ' 'em, take your money out if you see something's about to go bad.
it is the correct thing to do if you have information. that's what creates a run on the bank. Often time a run on the bank is created by a lot of people, doing the right thing, which is trying to pull your money out of a failing system. the thing to me that is surfacing though is this kind of generalization that,the venture capital system is a bad system that hasn't, created all these incredible businesses and innovation and is driving really America's kind of number one position in the technology field,
And I say that as a European, I gotta make sure that I clarify this. I find it kind of really cringey when people talk about capital allocation as this art or when I listen to all in and how these folks are all talking like they're geniuses.
Even though that, uh, you just need one Facebook and 99 failures to, do really well as a there's no love lost there, the narrative, the press,it felt a little bit to me sitting on this side, ah, now it's our time to dish it out.
Now it's our time I had to come in and punch them while they're down, I literally heard things like, yeah, even the name Silicon Valley Bank is annoying. I'm so happy that they're, you that was the narrative. I was like, come on guys.
Nobody's looking good here. Nobody,
[00:15:35] Troy: I don't know how, you can't see it as a policy failure where the mismatch of assets and liabilities and the requirement that the long-term, investments are not marked to market. So the exposures are not apparent. The exposures not apparent. is a problem good, well-meaning people that had three to five to 10 to 20 million at SVB that were running their business off of it, that are making payroll, that are buying pro, those people invest.
They put their money in a bank. yeah, they didn't evaluate the risks of that bank, but we don't do that when we put money in an institution like that. So
I think it,
[00:16:07] Brian: we might need to, no,
[00:16:08] Troy: Now, Brian, it strikes me your argument is that, VCs are douche bags. They're douche bags because they didn't support this institution that was such a cornerstone of, their world and provided them with good service for a long time.
When the chips were down, they all bailed on them, and it caused a bank run and bad on them. And the other argument I think you're making is
[00:16:29] Brian: that, that's the argument. I think that's a pretty good argument.
[00:16:31] Troy: the other one is that all these guys that are sort of, libertarian, that criticize, all types of government regulation and, student
[00:16:38] Brian: Valley
Bank was re, was, was lobbying against being regulated in such a way that would've made it, subject to, you know, we
[00:16:46] Troy: Oh, I'm, I'm, I don't think I'm defending the executives at Silicon Valley Bank at all. I think that the, no, I don't think that they're easy to blame for this. you are pointing out the hypocrisy of those that rally against government involvement in any part of the economy now wanting, wanting their support because it's their money and their company's money.
[00:17:04] Alex: Yeah, I mean, it was interesting when,Friedberg even, on the All End podcast, who's a known libertarian, who is actually my favorite, kind
of person on that podcast.
Well, I mean, I, I think at least he's intellectually honest. He even said I hate to say this, but the government has to step in or something to that effect.
but Brian, I think just so we can separate this. There's the bank, there's a lot of blame to Go around in the bank. There's that, then there are these individuals who have turned around who have kind of done the mental gymnastics to start blaming the government.
The same way when, FTX went down, The first things to blame was the lack of reg, the lack of regulation and the media for not covering it properly.I agree. there's a bit of a revenge angle that's coming from that narrative, and I agree that there's a lot of individuals who have shown to be able to do a full fucking u-turn.
The second things turn. But just to be like a little bit more nuanced on the Silicon Valley Bank. even if you looked at the numbers, knowing about how the financial work, a lot of people have told me that bank looked safe. It was incredibly well run. the distribution of its assets looked pretty good on paper.
There was nothing that looked wrong that idea that VCs were forcing investment to bank there is actually I cannot find proof of that. It is that it was a bank that was tailored for startups and VCs
therefore people
[00:18:22] Brian: of
its weakness. I guess what I, a lot of things are unforeseen But again and again, we come back to these things where there are things that should have been seen And weren't seen by the people who keep telling us how smart they are.
we're in this era and I think that's why there's a lack of trust in a lot of institutions and that there are a lot of people who have held themselves off to out to be like all knowing and then prove to be just as fallible as the rest of us, and then when it happens, there tends to be like not a lot of,accountability.
[00:18:51] Alex: I am with you. when the FTX did back all happened, I was quick to jump in and say,blaming the media or the government for this seems like a little, much of a stretch. But I do think that in the Silicon Valley Bank, there is definitely a policy issue.
There's definitely an issue about the narrative that wasn't uncovered by the media around these kind of medium sized banks being potentially, more brittle than we thought they were. The VCs are definitely, potentially to blame. And then there's a few individuals that when this shit started going down, didn't look so good.
I do want to talk about this idea that, there's a lot of punching down happening now or punching while, people are down because people see tech as this thing that deserves to be punished. And I see that it's, it's everywhere. but you understand it is a similar. behavior than people seeing, Media in quotes deserving to be punished for something.
[00:19:41] Brian: Media has been like unpopular. and the reason that it's painted as a enemy by a lot of these loudmouth, whatever you wanna call them, individuals, we can't call them tech or vc, whatever these loudmouth individuals is, because it's politically expedient. nobody is going to, you've got a ready made market for that.
and we'll see how this plays out politically cuz I'm fascinated to see how this, don't call it a bailout, indirect bailout is going to be,Handle because like we keep hearing, at least I keep hearing that it's the media, the media, the media.
Well now, tech is a really, really important industry, They keep telling us how important they are, we are going to see now in the regular political realm how the regular people forget about the media, react to this quote unquote backstop. Now I understand it's for companies that had nothing to do with this.
I personally have the rebooting LLCs money in Citibank. Unfortunately it's under $250,000. So it is like F D I C approved. But I'd like it to be above if anyone wants to contact me for sponsorship,
[00:20:46] Alex: I love
the way every, every podcast. You mind. Every episode.
[00:20:54] Brian: I wanna be at risk of that and I'm just gonna open up different bank accounts cuz it's
[00:20:58] Alex: But Brian, here's maybe what I'm trying to get to. there's this saying like, hurt people, hurt people. And I get that the media's been bashed and I get that there's specific characters in
the media that are, wait, hang on, hang on. That are very powerful, that have been bashing the media. And it seems to me like now the media narrative should take a higher ground and rather than say, haha, now it's happening to you. Let's all pile in, just telling the real story of what's happening. because let me tell you, those billionaire VCs, those big tech companies like Google and Facebook, they're not impacted by this.
They're gonna be fine.
[00:21:30] Brian: Well, first of all, everyone is going to be fine. So all, all
the the
yelling, fire, the yelling fire In a theater that we saw this weekend, the
[00:21:37] Alex: but are you just talking about Jason because Ka Canis,
[00:21:39] Brian: everyone did. He weep. I saw he, I heard he weep, wept. Did he weep?
[00:21:43] Alex: I don't fucking care, man. I fucking swear. If this guy becomes the voice for tech, I might leave the industry.
[00:21:49] Brian: he'd like to be the voice for media too. I guess. He's the new media. the companies that were unable to get, I know that was very stressful. It was also, honestly,it was obviously always gonna get sorted out.
The F D I C was always gonna step in
[00:22:03] Alex: I don't even think that's the story anymore. I think the story is like that. we're continuing the strength down, separating people into groups and when everybody sees tech, they see Tech Bros and Elon Musk and Peter Thiel. and when everybody looks at media, they either blame them for.
Attacking Trump too much or for allowing Trump to happen, here's my thing. This is like a peace offering. Why doesn't tech and media get together and start normalizing the narrative? Because the thing that I noticed is that you started getting
[00:22:32] Troy: Really,
really, that's your,
[00:22:34] Brian: That that's what you're bringing. Come on, Alex. We got
[00:22:36] Alex: it's so stupid. This is
[00:22:38] Brian: Well, yeah,
[00:22:39] Alex: conversation. Like, oh, tech is bad the headlines. Oh. Looks like some people are gonna lose their Teslas. fuck off. That's
[00:22:46] Brian: Who said that? Dude? Is that a real headline?
[00:22:48] Alex: I might have been a tweet.
[00:22:49] Brian: I will say this. Like a lot of the stuff was overblown.
[00:22:52] Alex: I'm not a reporter. I don't need
[00:22:55] Brian: That's good. This is good. This is the new media. the I'm sorry. Like over this weekend, and maybe this is me being a cynical journalist. I don't think I'm anti-technology, but like whatever.
I loved how everyone changed clothes. anyone who was a libertarian all of a sudden went over, was like the government needs to step in. And then you had every people who had their money trapped in. And again, I do have a, this is not any of the
[00:23:18] Alex: We know Brian is Antis Small business.
[00:23:21] Brian: this is a gr I like joke as like the small business owner. it's, this is what they did. They basically changed clothes from the on hashtag entrepreneur to like hashtag small business owner . And there was this one, it was be promoted by a lot of, ,
[00:23:34] Alex: Mm-hmm. . Mm.
[00:23:35] Brian: this woman who has a 15 person company, she said, I'm a mom of four in Ohio. I drive a Honda Odyssey minivan, I'm just trying to make payroll and stuff. This is very sympathetic. I was like, yeah, that is true. And then I, I clicked on her profile and it had at McKinsey , so like everyone becomes a small business owner because the small business owner is the patron saint of American capitalism.
You
can't say anything bad about them. There weren't,
[00:23:59] Troy: There's
a bigger,
there's a bigger, there's a bigger issue. Nobody can
ever be antis small business,
[00:24:03] Brian: be food lines. There were
[00:24:04] Troy: was saying. There's something that's going to happen. That is bubbling up right now. And I think it was reflected in a very thoughtful article written by Ezra Klein in the New York Times and Opinion piece this weekend.
we are fascinated by technology. We are smitten by innovation. we turn the leaders of, those companies into heroes. it's not a new thing. It's not about tech, it's about capitalism and the American way and, exploring the frontiers of everything.
And it's a fundamental part of, who Americans are and who we are. in terms of people that make things, that innovate, that do new things. And suddenly technology or the next frontier of technology it's incomprehensible. what's starting to happen is we can't map the inputs to the outputs.
we know that when we put something into a model and it gives us back something that, is coherent and looks like intelligence and all that, that's cool. And we're incredibly smitten by it, and we go after it without thinking of any of the broader consequences of it. But right now what's happening, and, Ezra makes this point about spending time with AI researchers in Silicon Valley.
that they're like, it's a very unusual time because people are, are starting to play with technology that they don't really understand what it's gonna do. And there was this survey done that was interesting where 10% of experts in the field thought that the consequence of this technology could be kind of catastrophic,
[00:25:29] Brian: that's why I wanted to talk about risk, because I actually have this in my piece that I'm ready for tomorrow. It's a bit of a screed, as you can tell. the problem is the lack of trust when it comes to risk management, Because it, this is a bank thing.
It's finance, it's like whatever, But where tech has moved, and I'm sorry, I have to group this thing, is into these areas that are incredibly important to society. They're not just laying down like fiber anymore We saw this with not really understanding the risks of connecting the world that wasn't thought through, Because you move fast and break things, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. When it comes to ai, a 10% risk of catastrophic to humanity, I saw another survey that the majority of people right now do not think AI is worth it. They think that the risks outweigh the upsides. for the next, I think JPT four is supposed to come out tomorrow.
An interesting time for it to come out because the trust levels. , I think, and maybe it's the quote unquote media, I don't think so. are lower than they've been in a long time for what is coming out of quote unquote Silicon Valley and like this is narratives and narratives are very important. If there's a 10% risk of ruining humanity, I think a normal person would be like, Hmm, maybe pump the brakes.
[00:26:43] Alex: I'm not sure how these statistics work. I want us to be very cautious with this stuff, but, there was probably a, a 10% risk of electricity ruining humanity. I don't know how we do these calculations. I think that there's a couple of things happening. and one of them is definitely that a new technology has arisen very quickly.
That is, I think in our culture, the beginning of the end for many stories, It's Terminator. It's Skynet, it feels like the, preamble to one of the dystopian stories around ai. So it's bound to make people uncomfortable, whether, there's some truth to it or not.
I think that definitely doesn't help on top of, I actually think technology companies in the last 10 years haven't done a bunch of big leaps until this one. They've really worked on really stupid, boring shit that didn't have a ton of impact. and a lot of the business that are huge today aren't entirely new businesses, but kind of rehashing of similar, things or, specific interfaces that do something different like TikTok.
but we've seen cultural changes, like everything's moved to streaming, yada yada. I, I also think that there just, not to blame the media, but to kind of make a point about the media,
[00:27:47] Brian: This has been a real change.
[00:27:48] Alex: but, but let's
[00:27:48] Brian: this episode. It's good when it characters like you start to see the fullness in the
[00:27:53] Alex: there's a contentious relationship between technology and technology press, let's call it that.
That has just become I think, pretty unproductive. and it's hard for me cuz I listen to a lot of podcasts and there's the one with Car and, and Scott Galloway, the, what is it called? The Pivot Yeah. that podcast has become nearly like, an hour of people saying how bad tech is.
And apparently Kara was in every room telling every tech founder that they shouldn't do the bad thing that they were about to do. and I find that's like kind of a recurring theme in a lot of technology press now that it's just that trust is gone. and a lot of tech is too blame for that.
But I wonder what happens when, the, the driver of innovation and technology, which, is held in such contempt. by the media and by the population. does that mean we slow down? that, that mean it just gets more regulated. but you know, who's not slowing down?
[00:28:44] Brian: Oh, no. Here comes China. If what You start with the, uh, small business
[00:28:47] Alex: No, I was gonna say
China,
[00:28:49] Brian: biggest threat. Yeah. gotta,
[00:28:51] Alex: what are you gonna do? Put the technology back in the bag?
[00:28:54] Brian: I think this
is part of the evolution, What is going on right now? What is coming out of the technology industry? What really happened these are societally important stories. they said, is it a systemically important whatever entity?
been learning all these like different finance things just over the weekend so I can act like I'm an expert. but , it's probably not very effective.tech is systemically important right now, It's systemically important to our economy and systemically important to society.
And with that comes things like responsibility, accountability, and yes, regulation. Go figure, guess what? the, pharmaceutical industry extremely regulated. we have regulated industries. what is gonna be interesting is how that happens because, and this is where I go back to this you know, these unfortunate libertarian clowns, who right or wrong?
And maybe it's the media's fault are self-appointed spokespeople, that doesn't work. The regulation is going to happen. And I understand how regulation ends up favoring the largest companies and all this other stuffbut the stuff that the technology industry is working on is too important.
It's not a social app. And so inevitably there're going to be giant societal implications for this. And how democratic societies decide on that is through things like regulation and legislationso I hope coming out of this, that. Certain quarters of quote unquote tech or whatever, or individuals and stuff grow up and grow out of this libertarian stuff that all 15 year old boys are
[00:30:24] Troy: Yeah, it's a really, really tough question. I want to kind of pick it apart for a second because I agree with some of the points you're making around, technology becoming so consequential that we really need. third party to think through how we manage that innovation and the effects of it.
it's that as there's become, this was my point a minute ago, and this isn't even close to the density of ai, but the more dense and complex the issues get, the less faith I have in our regulatory apparatus. And the best example for me is, look, I think that it wasn't just, social apps and shit, actually, social apps and shit had a very profound effect on the structure of media.
Now, there's two sides on that. This podcast is enabled by social apps and shit, that's why we're able to do this. And that's why we have content abundance, quite frankly. And that's why we have the deteriorated influence of institutional media brands. Now you can say that's a good thing. It was better when, you know, media companies had way more stability in all of that stuff.
Or you could say, We've innovated in a way that was entirely unpredictable to a new state where lots more people have a point of view, whether it's Jason Cal Kennis or David Sachs, or Scott Galloway, or Troy Young, or Alex or whoever. And I think that for the most part, it's probably a pretty good outcome.
But then when I look at what regulation did, and they stumbled around online advertising. the IAB B was incapable pretty much as a quasi kind of, government organization or an industry trade group of structuring anything other than the shape of banners.
it's 7 28 by whatever. when you look at gdpr, what a failure, what an utter failure. all we have done is add buttons to websites all over the world. With absolutely no impact, no additional safety for the consumer, no comprehension from the consumer. No, certainly not better for anybody's business or for the economy.
All it did is it created a new tier of middlemen that were extracting value in the middle of the media industry by helping you manage this, fucked up situation. And so saying regulation is a wonderful thing. I just don't know
[00:32:36] Brian: I don't think anyone likes, nobody likes regulation Ralph Nader, rose to fame. know, you think about him as a leftist and he was against
you know, for reforming regulation.
[00:32:45] Alex: I don't think that's true. I think regulation is one of those things that when you ask people at a high level, most people can agree. my challenge with regulation right now is that I feel that the discourse is not. going to lead to any, good reg regulation, because I think the way people are talking about this stuff is a, they don't understand it.
The government's not able to put something cogent together. And yes, the narrative in the press is not particularly intelligent most of the time. Because we keep talking about fucking AI is falling in love or how it's going to, ruin, science fiction, writing competitions or whatever that is.
I don't think we truly under. and so, to Troy's point, yes, a a perfect regulation would be great, but it's also there hasn't been a decent track record of
[00:33:27] Troy: I, and I'm just struggling What perfect regulation means.
[00:33:29] Brian: There's no perfect regulation. Name
gi, give me one.
The financial industry hates the regulations that it has. The pharmaceutical industry hates the regulations. It has the transportation industry hates the regulations. They have, every industry that is regulated hates the regulation. I mean, and usually then, by the way, in the background, they're doing regulatory capture in
[00:33:50] Alex: think that part of the challenge with technology regulation, specifically internet regulation, regulation works much better when it's localized when you're saying, oh, this is how we treat meat, so therefore meat that comes into Europe needs to be treated like this, otherwise we won't buy it.
You know what I mean? The, the problem with things like the internet, is that it's so fast moving and amorphous and so global that regulating this stuff, often breaks down into something that doesn't work like gdpr cuz people are trying to. figure out a system that can be distributed, across the internet.
so that's part of the issue with regulation. and I don't want to maybe conflate regulation with risk taking. I think there's like a behavior of risk taking, that we're maybe kind of applying to. we don't want somebody like Facebook that kind of plays fast and loose with, teenage suicide to control ai.
And I totally agree with that. I'm also worried about it, but question is what do you do about it? And, I think that the media, because this is also, a podcast about media has some responsibility in highlighting these things in a way that isn't do you know how many Terminator thumbnails I'm seeing on news articles talking about ai? I don't think the discourse has been really intelligent. I think the whole SVB thing has shown that maybe there's just too much contention between these groups for there to be an intelligent discourse.
[00:35:02] Brian: to go back to Troy's earlier point,the problems at S SUV are, the risks were actually highlighted by there was a newsletter writing about this a couple months ago. So kudos to the newsletters
[00:35:12] Troy: At least
it wasn't a blog
[00:35:14] Brian: yeah, that's, I think that's a good thing cuz despite people hating on the media, regulation is not generally how problems are found. short sellers have a, place in this, all sorts of different people with different incentives to make the system somewhat better.
to me, I'm just thinking of a overall shift in the position of where the technology industry has been here too far. obviously
everyone likes
[00:35:37] Troy: I think talking about regulation at a thousand foot level is not particularly useful. Alex made a really good point that what's more important I think around AI is that it is not controlled by a small group of people than the regulation Often.
Kind of silos it to organizations that can navigate regulation. it's really important that things like stability, AI are putting AI in the hands of all kinds of people to think about its consequences, to play with it, to look at new applications, even if some of those people are bad people. I sort of have faith that we will do what we always do, which is through a lot of tenses in many cases, tense back and forth and dialogue.
We will kind of figure out our way through this,
and it's just n now we're just
[00:36:23] Brian: I don't know how I became like pro-regulation, but Okay.
[00:36:26] Troy: I don't wanna back into a corner on anything like that, Brian. I just think that right now, the thing that we're dealing with is just that the advancement is so expon.
and it's like I said, there's a disconnect between, it's really hard with any modern system to see inputs and outputs and really understand the processing that's in the middle. And so we're living in a time where, I fear what's gonna happen is, it kind of happened when, post Obama, when everybody was like anti Wall Street and where it was like they were to blame.
And, and you could argue that that's true, I fear that we're moving into the same, we're just replacing the bad actor, which is tech. that a lot of people that don't live in, it's kinda like everything's like high school, And so what's happened is the nerds, the people that understand, particularly the self-righteous nerds, now have an insane amount of authority and power.
and we are living through a period. No, no, no.
[00:37:20] Brian: No, no, no. I agree. I, I, I, I, I wrote something very similar. That's why I, I, I think, I think we actually are more in agreement cuz like there's a lot of people in quote unquote the media or maybe just in general who wanna shove ' em back in lockers. So
[00:37:31] Troy: right. I think like guys that wear fur outfits and charge, with horns in their helmets and charge the capitol are people really reacting to feeling powerless and out of control and not understanding how they're gonna succeed in this really complex world that we're building. And that's the problem.
[00:37:47] Brian: But I think the point I was trying to make was that tech has reached a maturation point where these are important conversations and there needs to be a realization. And it doesn't mean regulation, That these have societal, IM implications. And that there is a responsibility there.
look
with great power comes great responsibility. What is it the Spider-Man
[00:38:10] Alex: I
know, but
[00:38:11] Brian: just the reality.
[00:38:12] Alex: the thing is that I don't know if we're gonna get anywhere useful. and once again, this, to me, the SVB stuff was more like a highlight of where we are in society the way innovation usually works is a little bit like, you're going down a road and you're gonna hit obstacles, which are like, new inventions or whatever, and those obstacles are fraught with danger and potential.
you can't drive around it and you definitely can't drive backwards. we've just hit some potential new obstacle, with ai. What we do with it is not going to, I don't think the outcome is gonna be better if we start saying, well, that's tech's responsibility.
tech's been playing fast and loose, and we cannot tru trust tech because tech isn't a thing the same way. I think it's a societal issue that we need to have a conversation around at a societal level as to how this impacts jobs, as to how this impacts education. Why should schools ban something like that?
It's like banning calculators because the the, the people we represent in this podcast are really kind of like tech and media. My hope, my hope is that tech and media starts working together a little bit better to not only communicate what's going on in a way that is mature, but also help forge, you know, how we apply these technologies.
I lost confidence over the weekend just seeing how everybody behaved. I don't think everybody, anybody, anybody. That has some authority, whether it's the media, the tech, the all-in folks, the people that were, libertarian until 48 hours ago. All of these folks, everybody looks, everybody looks pretty terrible.
And, 99% of the rest of the population is looking at us and say, you are the fucking guys. Like controlling the thing that could either don't, like,turn this society into Star Trek or into Terminator two. And I don't know, I think that's bad for all
[00:39:54] Brian: Yeah. How do societies have conversations about these things?
Democratic societies? Note, how do democratic societies have, have these fruitful conversations? Imperfect but fruitful.
[00:40:04] Alex: I don't know. Do you have an answer?
[00:40:05] Troy: guess.
[00:40:05] Brian: No, it doesn't seem like that works
[00:40:07] Alex: Uh, Twitter's gotten so bad. I think Twitter just, yeah.
[00:40:10] Brian: I think they're us. It's usually done through politics, is where power gets exercised. And I think
[00:40:15] Troy: Mm-hmm.
[00:40:16] Brian: the weekend.
[00:40:17] Alex: Yeah.
[00:40:17] Brian: That'll be interesting. It'll be interesting because I think this is just the new realm that, the role the technology plays in society and culture. It's the, it's what I say before this podcast, and it's gonna require a lot more of these conversations. to you know, that's just the reality of it.
[00:40:34] Troy: Yeah. This one is fascinating.
[00:40:35] Brian: it's a recognition of technology's like pivotal
role.
[00:40:38] Troy: you think about all the boxes that are checked here as you highlight why this is such an important issue from, financial, regulatory environment to, to small business, to, policy around ai and its creeping importance to everything that we do as a society and culture to global power positions.
Like all of these things are connected,
[00:40:59] Brian: Yeah. Whereas if you were rewo 10 years ago, none of these conversations were even like on the table.
[00:41:06] Alex: Yeah,
[00:41:06] Troy: I did find it fascinating to see. I wonder how many people that were in policy making positions were influenced by, Twitter broadly the conversation on Twitter or, a group of people that were very vocal about how this should, resolve you. You seem skeptical, Brian, judging from your.
[00:41:22] Brian: uh, I I'm a little skeptical. Yeah. I think like most power is still exerted,behind closed doors.
[00:41:28] Alex: I don't know if there was any, influence there, because I would say that the vast majority of people wanted to see this just go down in flames considering what I was reading. And if for the more popular option might have been to let that happen or do
[00:41:41] Brian: But that's, but uh, just to be clear, that's any bailout? I'm sorry. We can't call it a bailout. It's a backstop and indirect bailout. I mean, the money comes from somewhere, sorry. And it's, it's gonna be passed on
[00:41:50] Alex: But all I'm saying, all I'm saying is all I'm saying is
[00:41:52] Brian: but any bailout is unpopular. It doesn't matter if it's the farmers or the tech people.
I don't care, Sam Altman, with your 10 billion funding round. it's just not true. Nobody likes bailouts, nobody.
[00:42:04] Alex: there's been like over 500 banks, that have had runs like this, that have been shut down and everybody's always gotten their money. However, the narrative's different with this one. it is big and it is, and it is
Silicon
[00:42:17] Brian: really believe? did either of you guys seriously believe that all these thousand startups were gonna go under that they weren't gonna quote unquote
get their money? I didn't.
[00:42:25] Alex: here's a true thing that I believe because I was talking to a few people. Number one, I don't think that's the story for me here, whether we believe it or not. the thing to me is that this whole situation exposed something to me that, that is now clearer is that it seems that the tech press really hates tech and it's gonna be an interesting tension that happens there, yay, this thing we write about every day is going down in flames.
We're so fucking stoked. and I'm generalizing. I appreciate that. the conversations I was having was nearly nobody thought that, the money would never arise. but if the money took 1, 2, 3 months to come through, they wouldn't make payroll. And these businesses don't have that type of runway, and time's already hard.
And they're already trying to, find product market fit or whatever that is in, in very tumultuous financial conditions. So it wasn't that. The money? would be lost. If anything, the big guys had stuff spread around multiple banks that they were gonna be fine. It was these small guys that only had 3 million and not having access to like $500,000 over the next two months would be catastrophic.
that was the main story I was hearing about, from the inside. and sure, maybe somebody worked at McKinsey and maybe that small business owner, owns a Tesla fine. But,
they were just businesses.
[00:43:35] Brian: No. If that's not the, that to
[00:43:37] Troy: Why isn't.
[00:43:38] Alex: probably
[00:43:38] Troy: a minivan. They should make
[00:43:39] Alex: That's true. That's
true.
it just highlighted something to me. We
[00:43:43] Brian: but what, what is the tech press? does that exist
anymore? tech Crunch?
[00:43:47] Alex: I mean, people who broadly talk about Tech, tech Podcast.
Tech Press Tech, Twitter, right? your your techno, your technology podcast.
[00:43:55] Brian: Everyone is, well, that's the whole thing. Tech is a horizontal, not a vertical. And I feel like a lot of this, going back to likeeveryone assumed their positions is going back to a time when. there was a technology industry, we use a lot of shorthand just because we're humans and we have to.
technology is across every single industry, every single facet of society, across politics, across borders, across everything like Troy was saying. And that's a totally different era than had existed. And that's gonna require a whole bunch of different types of conversations because it's not just a story about, oh, we're gonna get funding and then build this thing and make a bunch of money, and then other people gonna go out and build a bunch of different things.
it is a lot broader. And I think that is a challenge right now.
[00:44:42] Alex: It definitely marks, a milestone in change. I have a quote of a really bad take from the Wall Street Journal. Do you wanna hear it?
[00:44:48] Brian: Oh yeah. Are they a tech.
[00:44:49] Alex: Well, you know, was there regulatory failure? Perhaps SVB was regulated like a bank, but looked more like a money market fund. Then there's this, in its proxy statement, SVB notes that besides 91% of their board being independent and 45% women, they also have one black and one LGBTQ plus and two veterans.
I'm not saying 12 white men would've avoided this mess, but the company may have been distracted by diversity demands. , what the
fuck? What the fuck are you kidding me? It's diversity.
[00:45:21] Brian: of that.
[00:45:21] Alex: problem.
[00:45:22] Brian: I've seen, a lot of the d e I thing coming out and
[00:45:25] Troy: Can you tell me, Alex, was that for, for, was that an opinion piece in the journal?
[00:45:29] Alex: I'm sure it must, I
[00:45:30] Brian: I
hope so.
[00:45:31] Alex: better, hope it
[00:45:32] Troy: Jesus
[00:45:32] Brian: certain.
[00:45:33] Troy: Or did, did, did, did Murdoch text that in?
[00:45:36] Alex: Yeah, This is by Andy Kessler, who's an opinion columnist.
[00:45:40] Troy: Yeah, of course. It's important to say that.
[00:45:42] Brian: everyone goes to their battle stations, that's just where we are.
[00:45:46] Alex: how can we expect people to trust any of us when this is the fucking discourse, man. I mean, it's, opinion of or not, it's printed under the, the Wall Street Journal banner,
[00:45:54] Brian: Look,
I feel like in the last few years,anyone who is in this very important industry, tangentially or essentially is gonna have to get used to messy conversations with lots of different people and ideally conversations are about speaking, but they're also about listening.
And there's been a lot of talking at people coming from, and I understand it because this. industry broadly was in a totally different position than it is now, and there was a bunch of different stakeholders. And the idea of these like sep degen or octogenarian lawmakers, , deciding the future, shaping these markets gives me pause.
So I don't want to be very clear there.
[00:46:30] Alex: Yeah.
[00:46:30] Troy: If you can't use an iPad, you can't talk about ai.
[00:46:33] Alex:
[00:46:33] Brian: I mean, all sorts of complicated
[00:46:35] Troy: I'm gonna be a super tech savvy Septi.
[00:46:38] Alex: oh, I hope to be, I mean, video games are gonna be great when I'm older. by the way, one thing, one thing to note is that one of the narrative was that this was also the end of crypto because it wasn't showing up as a hedge, but crypto jumped, you know, nearly 10%
the last Yeah.
[00:46:52] Troy: Yeah, but it jumps
[00:46:53] Brian: Well, I like what every, everyone basically shape shifts the thing into whatever their like pet cause is. if your pet, your pet cause is you know, disliking the tech industry, it was pretty, it was a layup. if your pet cause was like disliking, quote unquote, the media took a little bit of work, but it was fairly easy to dial in
[00:47:10] Alex: Yeah.
[00:47:11] Brian: if you're, if it was about hating like the government, you can blame like, I guess the government for not blowing the whistle on
[00:47:18] Alex: But there's a lot of sh there's a lot of chat Freud as Well which I I felt like with the, the crypto crash, I was like, Ugh, finally I'm validated.
[00:47:25] Brian: honestly there is, and like also it's just the reverse of go woke, go broke. what,
[00:47:31] Troy: Yeah. And, and at times of deep uncertainty shouldn't void is the currency.
[00:47:36] Brian: you
know, what you give is what you get back I don't know. To me it's inevitable.
[00:47:40] Troy: Perfect.
Bow.
[00:47:42] Alex: Yeah, that's right.
[00:47:44] Brian: bad?
[00:47:44] Alex: Well, yeah, you're, uh, you're just bumming all of us out I didn't want to make it sound like I, was, putting you in a bucket, of all press an all
[00:47:51] Brian: I'm not putting you in the bucket of all tech either. Alex,
[00:47:54] Alex: Great. And, you know, I love regulation. I'm European. That's what we do.
That's our main export
[00:47:58] Brian: Yeah. Alex loves regulation. You hate gdpr. You've gone after GDPR a few times.
[00:48:03] Troy: I don't think it's as easy as saying, I'm European, Alex,
[00:48:05] Alex: no,
[00:48:06] Troy: you're not to me. You know, but at this point you're sort of American. You go to Burning Man, you know, you have means you're, you've, you're all contorted
[00:48:15] Alex: I am contorted.
[00:48:16] Brian: are like, 40% European,
[00:48:18] Troy: 30
[00:48:18] Alex: 30.
[00:48:19] Troy: mm-hmm. , the K
[00:48:21] Alex: Yeah.
[00:48:22] Troy: 40.
[00:48:22] Brian: Yeah, well definitely.
[00:48:23] Troy: put someone from Alberta. So likenot 30% European. They're 30% Texan.
[00:48:28] Brian: yeah,
[00:48:28] Alex: interesting.
[00:48:29] Brian: I've heard that
[00:48:30] Troy: Yeah.
[00:48:30] Alex: The thing that's, um, yeah. It's a great nation. Is that your good? Is that your good product, Troy?
[00:48:35] Troy: No, I have a good product. I'll share it with you. When we get to that segment.
[00:48:39] Alex: Well, one thing I wanted to say is I wanted to take a moment, first of all, to thank Julie Alexander, who I don't know if we thanked Brian. Who, did a little shout out for us, likes the podcast. I also wanted to thank this young man Johnny, who I spent some time with in Paris, who's a absolute next level, search Ninja hugely enterprising young
[00:49:00] Troy: guy who can't get enough. Yeah, he is like an SEO guy. just next level and just,
[00:49:05] Brian: Oh. I thought he was gonna be your bartender at the Hemingway Bar,
[00:49:08] Troy: oh no, that was baby face. A different
guy.
Anyway, Johnny is a listener and a fan, and I, I wanted to shut out Johnny. So there we go. we can get to good product. Now,
[00:49:17] Brian: Yeah, let's do good products.
[00:49:18] Good Product
[00:49:20] Troy: I said at one point that I thought the perfect product was the soup dump. , it's just so perfect. and I said it before, but, so I'm not gonna focus on that today, I dunno if you've ever had soup dumplings, it's, the experience of eating them is wonderful.
And you, put a little of that vinegar sauce on and, you know, there's, it's, they're just savory and delicious and a fun experience to eat. Huge fan, perfect product. But today, I think, I was reminded of this. I went for dim Sum with my son, to one of our favorite places called Dim Sum Gogo, which you may or may not know.
If you ever spend time in New York, I'd recommend it. But the thing that I'm deeply enamored by is the turnip cake. the perfectly executed turnup cake that's so crispy on the outside and soft in the inside and has this kind of gooey thing that, it's not super salty or savory or sweet. It's kind of right down the middle.
You put hot sauce on it. Fuck is it good. Turnip cakes.
[00:50:14] Alex: I'm with you. I'm with you. It's one of the best things to order
[00:50:18] Brian: I've never
[00:50:19] Alex: Crown.
[00:50:19] Troy: Uh, turnip cakes are great. So rich. I
[00:50:21] Alex: Yeah.
it's maybe a branding issue in America because turnip doesn't,doesn't sound kind of as appetizing, I think that Chilean sea bass used to be a, Atlantic Toothfish or something like that, and that got rebranded.
maybe turnip needs to be rebranded
[00:50:35] Brian: I didn't know a Chi Chilian Sea Sea Basket rebrand. No. Winter.
It's
[00:50:39] Alex: Yeah,
yeah. Yeah. Uh,
[00:50:41] Troy: it worked. Yeah. No. What would you rebrand?
Just if we were doing
[00:50:45] Brian: I would
[00:50:45] Alex: so, so just, so the Chilean sea bass used to be called a Patagonia Toothfish,
[00:50:51] Brian: the
[00:50:51] Alex: and it was rebranded sea bass, and, started, just winning,
[00:50:54] Brian: Tilapia needs a rebrand too.
[00:50:56] Troy: a turnip I'd call it. like a white carrot souffle.
[00:50:59] Alex: mm. Or a, I don't have anything. I'm just like, I'm just exhausted from this week's and daylight savings to switch, which is great. By the way. I'm happy we get an extra our sunlight.
[00:51:09] Troy: Yeah. For the sunlight. I don't love the hour lost, but
[00:51:11] Alex: Hmm.
[00:51:12] Troy: do you ever walk around and think that's a great product? Brian, is that something that maybe you could, you could do this
[00:51:17] Brian: Yeah. I thought it was your thing. I mean, I, I, I have,
you know,
[00:51:21] Troy: have you got anything waiting? Yeah.
[00:51:22] Brian: No, I don't have anything waiting. I mean, I
was like, in Philadelphia this weekend, there were no great products.
[00:51:27] Troy: Well, the,
that's not true. You make
[00:51:29] Alex: Cream cheese,
[00:51:30] Brian: no, that's not true. but it was a
[00:51:32] Troy: The Eagles, that's a great product.
[00:51:34] Alex: the band
[00:51:35] Troy: how about, but Alex, if you, the, the band, if you, they're from Philly,
[00:51:38] Alex: Okay.
[00:51:38] Troy: are the Eagles from Philly? Where are the Eagles from?
[00:51:40] Brian: What do
[00:51:41] Troy: They're definitely not from Philly. Not the football team. Brian.
[00:51:43] Brian: Oh, the, the band?
[00:51:44] Troy: Yeah,
[00:51:45] Brian: they're not from Philadelphia, I don't think. So
[00:51:47] Alex: Los Los Angeles formed in Los Angeles, 1971.
[00:51:51] Brian: I mean the greatest cultural exports of Philly outside of like Rocky or like hollow outs. Um,
[00:51:57] Troy: product right there. Jesus.
Nice one. Philly,
[00:51:59] Brian: I think Aretha was born there. Patty
LaBelle definitely came
[00:52:02] Troy: Good
[00:52:03] Brian: Philly. Um,
[00:52:04] Alex: in Philadelphia.
[00:52:05] Brian: the Hooters, not forget the
[00:52:07] Troy: Huh?
We had the Queen City kids in Regina.
Big
[00:52:09] Brian: they like,
did you have a band that was the regional band? Was that the, cuz the Hooters was like the regional brand band that never really broke out from Philly but
[00:52:18] Troy: I think Joni Mitchell's from Moose Jaw.
[00:52:20] Alex: There's a place
called Moose Jaw.
[00:52:22] Troy: Yeah. You never been there.
[00:52:23] Alex: No,
[00:52:23] Troy: great
place.
[00:52:24] Alex: I, should I go?
[00:52:25] Troy: Yeah. I think they have a, uh, four Seasons,
[00:52:27] Brian: There's no way there's a
[00:52:28] Alex: uh,
[00:52:29] Brian: of Moose Jaw.
[00:52:31] Alex: it's
[00:52:32] Brian: That's what happens when you like, because I think Four Seasons is like one of those franchises, they just rent out the name. They don't
operate the properties.
[00:52:38] Alex: yeah, no, moose Jaw doesn't look like it has four seasons.
[00:52:41] Brian: Do they have a Ritz?
[00:52:42] Troy: No, they
think they have a holiday in Express.
[00:52:44] Alex: do you have anything to, take us home? Troy, this was a bummer of an episode, but,what happened last week or anything happened last week? There was maybe a funer note to end on in tech or anything you noticed outside of a good product.
[00:52:54] Troy: my take on media is that I, of feel so insanely satisfied with how much there is to read, watch, listen to, enjoy. it's just a funny industry because you're never different. You're never fully, there's always someone willing to make media to.
media changes cuz you gotta make it every day, You gotta make it fresh. there's always, you know, the cultural backdrop that means that there's a, a new group coming up or someone's underserved and there's always an opportunity to serve them and differentiating, come, come up with something different.
it was interesting this week that, but at the same time, industrial structures always kind of turn to oligopoly at some point. I read, we can include in the show notes, but I read a really thoughtful, long deconstruction of the media companies that dominate search. Did you come across that Brian?
[00:53:40] Brian: No.
[00:53:41] Troy: So
they clustered all of the kind of main groups or multi-brand owners. there's about, I think they grouped about six or seven and they included. , Meredith Hurst, future smaller ones like recurrent bustle, Conde, Penske. And so there was this whole group, and then they analyzed how many clicks they get per month from search and what percentage of the market that is.
And essentially what you see is that search is, kind of in a way oligopolistic in that it's controlled, by a handful of companies that dominate traffic coming off of Google. so despite the fact that,digital media companies, there's no longer the lock in that you had, in times when newspapers or local monopolies or magazines had big rate bases that were hard to replicate, or cable had the dial or.
the cable box. You didn't have that kind of, structural resilience. But what you did have now is that the best kind of hacker ish digital media companies grew up in this battlefield where you had, shifting content types and monetization and distribution. But over a longer, a, a bunch of them managed to kind of solidify a position of being the main refers from Google, which is really where your money comes from right now, except today that is deteriorating.
the optimist in me, finds this to be a very, very interesting time because I, I, you know, I grew up in, you know, at a time, and that's one, one of the main things I focused on at Hearst was building our sort of resiliency as a company that, That did extremely well in the search game. but now, everybody's sort of scratching their head wondering where, what the next model is, where's the next kind of point of resiliency for any kind of smaller, large media company?
And it feels like a time of just kind of wild invention. It's just, just a really interesting time. you can either look at it like, oh my God, what role does media play when you know everybody has a voice and you're crowded out by influencers and individuals and creators and all that? Or you can say, oh my God, how can I find new formats in this?
How can I build a company in this? It's just a super interesting time. So then you see examples like, and, and I admire this. I shared it with the group last night. Alex played with it. you know, obviously Buzzfeed has jumped on the,AI bandwagon and they built a, did you play this How to be an influencer or the influencer game, AI game?
[00:56:00] Brian: I didn't play yet.
[00:56:01] Troy: Alex can review it, I think the very first example of, or one of the first few examples of people trying to, to use chat to create an engaging media experience, although maybe, I think this one's a bit of a fail, right? Alex
[00:56:13] Alex: well, it's not fun, which is crime really. and also it feels surprisingly kind of constrained for something that that's meant to be based on ai. it's trying to act so self-aware because you're essentially simulating being a social media Influencer.
via a chat bot that's asking you questions and it's changing the number of people, that you follow.
It feels like a very kind of convoluted concept. but more stuff is gonna come out like this, at least, they're trying, my worry is that these types of things really, we get overloaded with these things, which are like the, the Buzzfeed, like which friend, friend's, character are you?
But just with like slightly more dimension to it. but Yeah. I mean, it's
[00:56:50] Brian: Yeah. But I think it's like a sort of like why there's, there's little durability and competitive advantage in publishing, the reason seo, what the example you're talking about, has always been so powerful is that it's one of the few durable competitive advantages, now even that is being chipped away.
this AI stuff you're talking about. again, I didn't experience it yet. It doesn't sound like it'll be adorable. Competitive advantage. . And so you're always gonna be like scrambling for like the next thing. obviously in analog media you had a lot of durable competitive advantages. I don't know what they
[00:57:21] Troy: Mm-hmm.
[00:57:21] Alex: No, I mean that's one of the reasons to also be optimistic is that these oligopolies might shift now with search shifting, and if Google's stranglehold changes, then all of these companies go with it.
[00:57:32] Troy: it's cool to see that innovation. I miss a lot of it because I don't hang out on YouTube, but talk show formats that my kid watches on YouTube are more between two ferns than they are. Kimmel,
[00:57:43] Alex: yeah.
[00:57:44] Troy: know, they're like, they're really weird
[00:57:45] Alex: I can recommend a podcast that is actually a, a YouTube show. and I also can recommend a topic for one of our next episode, and it's called Trillionaire Mindset. And it's these two dudes talking about,finance, but it's about 10% finance and 90% comedy show. they shoot it as a, as a YouTube show that then goes out to a podcast, which got me thinking like, do you know, like running a podcast, you keep being advised that the fastest growing part of podcasting is video podcasts.
And I always wonder what a video podcast is. Isn't a video podcast just a show and isn't podcast just an audio distribution medium? And those terms are getting all jumbled up and I thought maybe we can talk about it one of these weeks.
[00:58:25] Brian: Yeah, I like that. I mean, look, Spotify, it would've been the good one for Spotify
[00:58:28] Troy: I mean, it's what we should be doing. If we weren't so lazy, we should be putting this show on YouTube. Did we do that? I don't think we do.
[00:58:34] Alex: We don't, we don't, we don't. I
[00:58:36] Troy: Maybe we don't. We
[00:58:38] Alex: we we're get
[00:58:38] Troy: for YouTube.
[00:58:39] Alex: We definitely, are just,just getting the, things, things, right, doing it, audio, and then we'll figure out YouTube. yeah, the Spotify thing, I think is really important. and then, what is a podcast and, and what does a format even mean anymore would be a great topic
[00:58:52] Brian: yeah,
[00:58:53] Alex: that's not fucking banking
[00:58:55] Brian: because I think what the, Spotify is, forcing this thing to happen and I just wonder whether it's a real. Consumer demand or whether it's a platform that needs to find better ways to monetize and video
[00:59:07] Alex: or, or it's just a thing that tech companies do, which is whenever something successful, they become obsessed with it.
[00:59:14] Troy: bankers don't like it when you generically call them bankers. I found out.
[00:59:17] Brian: Really?
[00:59:18] Troy: Yeah, I went to lunch with a bunch of people that I called bankers all the time, and I refer to them as bankers in my newsletter, and they're like, dude, not bankers.
[00:59:25] Brian: What are they?
[00:59:26] Troy: equity.
[00:59:27] Brian: They're
[00:59:27] Troy: He's an investment banker.
He's a hedge fund person. He works in private, or she works in private equity.
[00:59:33] Brian: Everyone likes to like,it's not a bailout, it's a backstop.
[00:59:36] Troy: or it's
not a newsletter. It's a, it's a blog,
[00:59:38] Brian: Yeah,
[00:59:38] Alex: it's not a newsletter. It's a, blog,
You're a podcaster. Don't call me the media,
[00:59:43] Brian: Yeah. Everyone hate.
It's like in Breakfast Club where the Bender was saying to Emilio Estevez character, he is oh, you're a wrestler, so you wear tights. And he is no, I wear the proper, you know, wrestling attire. He's right tights.
[00:59:54] Alex: Yeah.
Well,
[00:59:55] Brian: need to accept their bankers. It's okay
[00:59:57] Troy: All right.
[00:59:57] Alex: yes.
[00:59:58] Brian: Thank you all for listening. We'll be back next week with a new.
[01:00:01] Troy: Okay. Well, thank you for pushing us on this, Brian. I thought it was a good,
good episode.
[01:00:05] Brian: it turns out. I'm gonna get a lot of hatred from the Chamber of Commerce. Cuz I didn't show enough feel to the small business owner.
[01:00:12] Alex: Yeah,
[01:00:13] Brian: so whatever.
[01:00:14] Alex: there's always somebody smaller.
[01:00:16] Brian: Yeah,
[01:00:16] Alex: Yeah. Yeah. All right. Well thanks everyone.
[01:00:19] Brian: thanks.
[01:00:20] Alex: Bye. 


PVA S1E28
PVA S1E28
[00:00:00] Alex: so today we're talking about,
[00:00:01] Brian: Yeah. Media formats.
[00:00:03] Alex: I know I came up with this topic, I get a little like fedora pedantic about taxonomy,
[00:00:08] Troy: I gotta say, just before we get started, you're coming in hard on these new podcasts. Like for a guy who was the producer,
[00:00:13] Brian: Yeah.
[00:00:14] Troy: now you're getting fan mail,
[00:00:16] Brian: Yeah.
[00:00:17] Alex: Oh, I should tone it down.
[00:00:18] Brian: The reluctant podcaster. It's
[00:00:20] Troy: when you're spoken to Alex
[00:00:22] Alex: yeah. Sorry.
[00:00:23] Brian: Yeah, no, let's spend 20 minutes arguing about the definition of media format.
[00:00:26] Troy: Yeah. He's caught up in that. He's
[00:00:28] Alex: I, I do, I get caught up in it. I'm trying to shake it off.
[00:00:31] Brian: All right. Who wants to start? cuz we probably all have different definitions of both media formats and their relative importance or, uni importance
[00:00:38] Alex: I think Troy clarified the pecking order here, so why don't you get started? Brian,
Troy gave you an opening. He, lifted a scepter so that you could start talking
[00:00:47] Brian: No, I want, I want Troy to start, because Troy has the most expansive definition of media formats that basically covers everything.
[00:00:55] Troy: why don't we just look at it from the perspective of the consumer, it's how they understand the media. It's the package. It comes in. the way that you package a narrative up.
[00:01:03] Alex: Sorry, can you move closer to the mic, Troy? I don't know what happened. You just went low.
[00:01:06] Brian: he does that. That's a power move.
[00:01:07] Alex: That is a power move.
[00:01:08] Brian: Yeah, it's low Talking is an irritating power move cuz it, it forces people to lean in.
[00:01:13] Alex: can we start, doing the podcast?
[00:01:15] Welcome
[00:01:37] Brian: Welcome to People versus Algorithms, a conversation about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Morrisy. I write the Rebooting Newsletter and host the Rebooting Show podcast. Each week, I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young, writer of the People Versus Algorithms Newsletter.
And Alex Schleifer, former head of Design at Airbnb and founder of Universal Entities. I spent my summers working in kitchens. . I tried doing front of the house work, but I found that I was more suited to be in the back making the food or even cleaning the dishes. It was sweatier, but you could listen to music and didn't have to deal with someone giving you grief because their chicken parm was delayed.
Kitchens only work with recipes. Recipes and ensure consistency, and when done right, they can become synonymous with the restaurant itself and its reput. I think of formats as the recipes of media. Media formats, to me at least, are ways to organize information and stories to accomplish your goals.
Ideally, those goals start with the audience and what they're trying to accomplish. But in the real world, formats are often dictated by commercial needs. Especially in ad models, the best formats become entwined with their brands because they're integral to them. Think of the old school business, insider slideshows or Buzzfeeds listicles and hands and pans, food, video style, or more recently, the smart brevity of Axios, which boils down complicated stories into their essence.
A few formats become blasting competitive advantages. I think smart brevity is one of them far more often formats wear out and they're copied to death and they lose all of their uniqueness. At one point, even the New York Times did listicles and every food video on the planet soon started using those same overhead food shots.
That's one reason I find. More often than not, a thin layer of differentiation and fleeting, hardly sustainable. Think of how Snapchat pioneered the stories format in 2013, only to have Instagram copy it in 2016, and all kinds of other people adopted, I mean, culminating in 2018 with the release of LinkedIn stories.
It's hard to say. Stories prove to be adorable. Competitive advantage for Snap, even if it became, a defining. Of digital media. So this week we discuss media formats, why they matter, and at least from my point of view, their limitations. , big thanks to the Fix, a great media publication you should all check out.
They recently updated their running list of the best Media podcasts, and while they didn't say it was ranked, from the best, I did note that people versus algorithms was at the top of the list. I should add that the Reuni Show, also maintained its place on the list. if you haven't already, please do check that.
it is an interview format versus the group chat format of this show, which we actually discuss, uh, later on in the conversation. As always, sending your feedback on format tweaks you'd like to see. Troy keeps pushing us to change the format here, so we'd love to hear, from what you think we should do.
I'm brian@therebooting.com. always interested in hearing your feedback now on to the conversation.
[00:04:32] Welcome End
[00:04:33] Brian: we're gonna talk about media formats, but I wanna start with you, Troy, but you, you can't go on for 10 minutes. You gotta keep your opening statement to five minutes. I feel like I'm a debate moderator.
[00:04:41] Troy: Well,
[00:04:42] Brian: What is the media format and why is it significant? Because I feel like we all have differing views on this.
[00:04:48] Troy: a format I guess, is the way information is presented to a consumer and the way it's packaged, including the medium that it's delivered in. it's a way of thinking about the str structure container in which the media content is delivered to the audience. To me, what defines it? You define it from kind of the mind of the audience.
How do they see the information you are presenting to them? And to me, it's probably the most important thing in media underneath of the media brand, there's the media brand, which is like Axios, and then there's the way that they, package information, there's the media brand, which is the economist, and there's the way that they go about doing journalism.
it's different, slightly different in television cuz you have the media brand, which is the network, let's say. And then you have the show brand, which is like American Idol. And that is a very particular format that, sustains for a really long time. I think that there is some confusion about the line between a media type and a media format.
And a media type is let's say radio or even podcasting. then there are things that are kind of gray. there's a tweet. Is is a tweet, a media type or a media format? It's kind of both, And then you. Things that are structural, like a column is a format, which is a first person perspective in the way you, create a point of view and package information.
There's a listicle, which is another kind of media format, right, which is a list of information
and then there are other really well-established formats like something like The Office, What is the Office? It's a media format. It first existed on British television. It was imported, the same format, the same idea came to America and it was like a spoof on office culture, and it was like a whole thing that people understood in love.
American Idol is a format, but there's also I would argue that CNN
[00:06:34] Brian: can I jump in? Why? Why? Those are not formats. They're not
[00:06:36] Troy: will definitely, American Idol is a format.
[00:06:39] Brian: Okay. competition is a format, but not like American Idol.
[00:06:43] Alex: Well, I think American and Ibel invented a format, which probably came from the British Pop Idol. just so we're clear, because I don't want this to become a conversation about taxonomy, kind of, it always,
[00:06:53] Brian: Here comes the
[00:06:53] Alex: a it taps into a part of my brain that I don't love, and the fact is that because I also work on the technical side of things, on the other side of things, on the production, the people who make shit happen,the idea of a media format is very clear, too much of that word that the media format is actually.
The newspaper or television or radio, but even the fact that 16 by nine is a format and the media, is it digital or is it, tape? But what we're talking about here is we're taking a bit of an elevated view and looking at the format more of the structure of what you're composing,
the way
[00:07:26] Brian: the pa. I like the word
[00:07:28] Troy: The packaging's a good way to say it, but, you know, formats comes from,
largely from television. They're formats. that's the kind of media language that it's most associated with. But I would argue in the modern world, there's all kinds of, for right. When Ted Turner invented, 24 Hour News, that was a new format.
Would we agree on that? CNN is a new format. It's also a media
brand.
[00:07:48] Alex: I would just not call it a, a media format, because a media format defines something very specific. But yes. A for, yes, it was a new format and I agree with you.
[00:07:56] Troy: Okay. So I mean, I think for the purposes of this conversation, it's sort of like how you package information.
and inevitably it relates to the media type that it comes delivered in. Right,
[00:08:08] Alex: Mm-hmm.
[00:08:08] Brian: gotta create formats that allow you to accomplish goals, ideally for the audience, right? But then also for yourself. And a lot of formats. you make trade offs and, and some of them are made around advertising. I think we've, we've seen this like a lot of media formats, really follow the monetization paths.
[00:08:27] Troy: I think that's true. Or they accommodated. Yeah. Is hot ones a format and a show brand, it's a format, right.
[00:08:33] Brian: yeah, I think it is a format to me, like a, a lot of these
[00:08:37] Troy: format or just this do format.
Media
brand, what
is it?
[00:08:40] Brian: the format of Mr. Beast is these challenges or stunts This is a YouTube, it is a native format to YouTube
[00:08:49] Troy: Okay. We're totally, we're totally aligned. We're totally aligned.
Axios, Axios format,
[00:08:55] Brian: Bullet points. Bullet points are a
[00:08:57] Troy: right? Why?
[00:08:58] Brian: Smart brevity is the format. I mean, and, and I guess my thing is the way formats, let's see, leave aside tv cuz I think about it very much on the ground level, the cuticle level. and you come up with formats just to me, they're like, plays a football. Sorry, we're gonna talk football a little bit.
Real football,
[00:09:14] Troy: don't like it when we talk. I don't like it when we do sports stuff.
[00:09:17] Brian: Okay, I'll do, okay, fine. I'll do, a restaurant. I got you. As you know, I do a lot of metaphors. you have to have recipes and you have to have set dishes and you can change 'em up a little bit. Some get baked potatoes, some get like french
fries. But the reality if,
[00:09:30] Troy: format? Just outta curiosity.
[00:09:32] Brian: my least favorite is tops and mostly because tops is mostly done because, it's just a way to ring more margin out.
you can just make the things smaller and sell a
[00:09:41] Troy: No, I think it's
like tapas is like sushi. It's like stomach Tetris. It all fits. It just little bits fit into so you can eat more.
[00:09:49] Brian: okay. But if you're running a restaurant, you need to have dishes that you move out of a kitchen. And I think my experience with formats is the reality that you have to recreate a product every freaking day. And the only way anyone understands a brand and remembers it is if you can have consistency.
And what formats the job, to me, that formats do internally, which is incredibly important, is that you can have some kind of consistency and they, it does like a marketing or brand job cuz the best formats become, synonymous with a brand. when you think of the, Axios brand, you think of those bullet points and the the be
smart
[00:10:26] Troy: Brian, you, you, You completely nailed it. Can I build
on that
[00:10:29] Alex: Sure. Go ahead.
[00:10:30] Troy: you guys were
supposed to gimme a little bit of setup time and you didn't give it to me, so the.
[00:10:34] Alex: you Go ahead. Joy.
[00:10:37] Troy: I like it when you do
like psychology. Talk with me. It's
nice. Okay,
why
are they important, I think is the question. Why do formats matter now? Why are we even talking about them? I think there's a few things. It's harder than ever to compete in media and formats are a useful way, as you said, Brian, to align your teams against an idea and to hopefully create a better product with less resource inside of a media company, against an expectation that you set with the audience. The other reason that formats I think are really important is that media companies don't really have locks on media types or distribution channels like they used to.
So a format helps your brand come to life. You do that thing, you become synonymous with that thing in the marketplace. On the consumption side, people have more to go through, more to consume. So formats that are respectful of your time, they get information out more quickly that help you understand the media better, you know, useful.
Now, why there's so much innovation in formats and why I think we're talking about in the podcast is because there's never been a time when. there's More room for format innovation. Why? Because the internet is a meat grinder because you're no longer constrained to a media type. You can make text, you can make video, you can make chat, you can make podcasts, you can make all of that.
So formats become really important way to differentiate and distinguish your brand. video is format vi, video is just what are we gonna make in video? formats, rule video, obviously. also the reason we're getting a lot of format innovation is because we're giving tools out to the audience.
And those tools suggest formats. You see this on TikTok a lot. ,
you know, the video that's cut in half or Like a duet video or a React
video or a split screen. Those are all tool based, you can put your head on top of someone else's video and you can comment on it.
So tools are giving us ways to create new formats and we're opening them up to the public. So you're seeing a ton of innovation around formats.
[00:12:31] Brian: My problem with the format stuff is I think it's a weak differentiator for a brand. I think you can do it, I did a thing with a hierarchy of differentiation and to me, format leave a side video. I don't know. The video world format is a low, I mean, I can't think of a worse mo just because Take stories.
I'll go back to video. It got copied by everyone. I mean, I think linked. I dunno, was the Excel one, is that, was that like an actual spoof or was it real? But anyway, e everyone added stories to there and stories was an original format. Snapchat came up with it and then Instagram was like, yeah, we're just gonna
[00:13:04] Troy: Yeah, I think maybe in video they're more important. if you look at what's sustained forever, the Bachelor, American Idol, shark Tank, these are all formats and they become intensely valuable. They get syndicated all over the world. All that those formats are,
really important. Brent,
[00:13:21] Alex: we should pull out the idea of inventing new formats as a platform. if you're Twitter or TikTok, because format becomes the entirety of what you're offering and your value is that, social graph that you're applying to it within media companies, what creating new formats can do is that you can engage your entire creative team, to build new properties around a format and that that can give you a head, start on something.
an advantage. Yeah. And I think Axios has shown that even though that format is being copied now, they've managed to fine tune it and create, content in a brand around that format. So I think same with the hot ones, right? Same with the Wings thing. I mean, a million people are gonna do something like this.
[00:13:59] Brian: But I think the thing is to me is a lot of times they can be shticks, the line between quote unquote format innovation and shtick is
[00:14:07] Troy: do you think the SE four format is working? Brian?
[00:14:09] Brian: Total shtick. Total shtick. That
thing
is written, that is written in a Google doc, and then it is shoved into the, what did they call the thing?
I don't know what they even call it. and
[00:14:21] Alex: can you define what it is? Because,
[00:14:23] Brian: basically the idea is to deconstruct a news article. So the building block format of a news article is, and this is actually instructive because it was from technological constraints, much like that's where formats come from. You know, the 700 word inverted pyramid news story, where you do the who, what wear up top, and then you move down.
And so the idea is you can cut from the bottom most important stuff to the bottom and everyone should get the entire story after the nut graph, which should be two to three paragraphs in, unless you're the New Yorker. And then it's 19 paragraphs in. there's all these different formats that has come out around the news
[00:14:59] Troy: called a, they call it a SEMA four, I believe. Brian?
[00:15:02] Brian: se formm se Formm, that's it. And so basically they're gonna re deconstruct the
[00:15:07] Alex: that, is that the whole stuff where they say no more step back, Liz's view, all that type of
[00:15:12] Brian: Yeah, yeah, yeah. So the idea is the imperfection of the 700 word and vir verdict pyramid story, particularly in, in modern world. you have mix of analysis and fact reporting. Opinion is always seemingly in there these days. we're gonna divide that up,
[00:15:27] Alex: Why
[00:15:28] Brian: reality.
Because the reality is it's the same freaking story that's just taken out. I mean, it's enchilada chi changa. I don't know. you're just rearranging the beans and, the cheese
[00:15:38] Alex: sometimes that's all this needs. And sometimes the format is a very simple shift into saying, we're going to make an interview. But during that interview, people eat really hot chicken wings
or or we're gonna make video really short and fast to consume.
Right.
[00:15:53] Brian: yeah. Well, I think the, the latter has more,
has more staying power. No, it's not dishonest. Look, everyone is gonna have a q and a format. Everyone is gonna have an explainer format, and you dress these things up in different ways. For instance, like with hot ones, it's just a q and a.
It's the same thing like I wanted to do. a version of this, in the standard, cold plunge pool. You're in the plunge pool, the camera's starting, and you do an interview, and obviously the person gets increasingly uncomfortable and frozen in there and ha ha ha, it's just an interview. Like it's all the same stuff.
[00:16:26] Alex: but the gimmick sometimes, you know, hindsight is 2020, so, so the gimmick sometimes feels, hokey or predictable, but for some reason, it just works. For some reason. You add a teaspoon of sugar in your tomato sauce and it tastes better, and yeah, whatever. It's just a spoon of sugar.
But it works. And I think if we overly elaborate what a format needs to be, then you could miss out on a lot of these things that are actually winners. slack was essentially irc. Fine. it just was the right thing at the right time. and I think oftentimes the best formats for me are things that aren't actually overly elaborate and complicated.
[00:17:01] Brian: Well, so they have to fit with the brand. the strength of Axios and the smart brevity was not the actual format. It's just bolded words and bullet points, but it was in service of their core differentiator, which was most New York Times story are 318 words of new information and 550 words of we call Be Material.
It's the Hamburger Helper. It's all the background stuff. they're like, we're just gonna give you the shit you need to know. And we're gonna put some
words
in
[00:17:28] Troy: big deal though, right? If you train your whole
[00:17:30] Brian: No, no, no. I, I don't mean it in a bad
[00:17:32] Troy: It's not the bullets, it's.
the
way you get, you teach your company to tell stories and the expectation you set around that with the audience also. Didn't you tell me to this week that I needed to kill my
kittens?
[00:17:43] Brian: no.
[00:17:43] Troy: Wasn't that the line?
[00:17:45] Brian: I don't literally mean Harriet is safe.
[00:17:47] Troy: No, but what you told me, I, drone
[00:17:49] Brian: I told you, you have to drown your kittens. Drown your kittens. Yes. That's cutting The stuff that you're in Love with, because you wrote it.
[00:17:56] Alex: Oh, is that like a kill your darlings, but let's just like up
wor worse.
but to somebody outside of the, that doesn't work as a journalist, first time I opened Axios and looked at this, it was a revelation. It was like, oh, finally something made for my stupid brain that has no attention span.
Great. this is exactly how I want to read the news.
And
[00:18:14] Brian: not, I'm not,
anti Axios in the bullet points.
[00:18:17] Alex: No, no. I'm not saying you are, but I think I, it, it feels like it's just bullet
[00:18:21] Troy: but
it feels like you are
[00:18:22] Alex: no. Yeah, exactly. Did nobody else was doing it with any type of, nobody was putting the resources that they were behind those
[00:18:31] Brian: Yeah. I have to admit, after the 900th time that where I'm told by Axios to be smart, it does wear off a little bit, but all formats do have wear off. But I think that they serve an important, you know, marketing function. For instance, my small experience basically had two formats that, really became synonymous with the brand.
And one was confessions where we gave anonymity to people to, talk about the real shit that goes on in the industry. And the other was an explainer format cuz you need an explainer format and we wanted to do it in a conversational way. And so it was w WTF is ad tech, wtf, programmatic, and those formats.
absolutely essential. They were the most important things that we did. We did lots of
[00:19:12] Troy: I'm so glad we're talking about formats. I'm very happy about it.
[00:19:16] Brian: so when you look at, Things like the New York Times, to me there feels like that we're, everybody's missing a trick, not testing out new formats every day. You know, when, what's his name? Did the seven Hour podcast, I
[00:19:26] Alex: no. Was it?
[00:19:26] Brian: He's betting. Did you see his bet? It's like a, he's betting people a million dollars in Bitcoin.
That it's that we're gonna have hyperinflation.
He wins
[00:19:33] Alex: him. what was his name?
[00:19:34] Troy: Lex Frid.
[00:19:35] Alex: engineer guy,uh, Friedman. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. you know, I never listened to it, but it's interesting to try these things out and technology allows you to try all these crazy things out, and I always find it surprisingly,
[00:19:47] Troy: Brian and I set a day aside to listen to that podcast, didn't we, Brian?
Yeah. Hey, one
question about
this. Can we start just back up a bit? What are your favorite formats? If I was just to ask you guys to reflect for a sec, can you think of a format, however we've defined it to this point that you really love?
It can be in any medium.
[00:20:05] Alex: Mm. I love the two minute papers YouTube videos, which is, they're not actually two minute long, but they're like usually, six to 10 minute long where, a guy just through a paper of some new technology that came out around usually AI or mid generation, and formats it in a way where he kind of outlines the paper and shows examples and he always has the same tone.
And I love that format, of kind of like, Taking, breaking down something hugely complicated, showing it, putting it down in under 10 minutes and making you feel smarter in 10 minutes. I think that's great.
[00:20:37] Brian: I like more conversational formats that are emerging around newsletters and also podcasts like this, because a format that I've, grown to detest is the explainer format. it's the heart of a lot of the problems I think a lot of people end up having with, journalism and journalists this like high and mighty Vox started the, really built their brand around an explainer format that's great.
It's, everyone needs a shtick. As I said. That's why, maybe I'm a little cynical about it, but what happens is when you apply
everything,when you apply everything to this kind of format, you, you end up having, you know, vox explaining why no, the lab leak theory is a conspiracy. that's the problem of formats that I find is too many times, publications and brands shove everything into their preferred format.
And the reason that they shove it into the preferred format is for marketing and branding purposes, not because it's doing a job for the
[00:21:31] Troy: Okay,
so,
[00:21:32] Alex: say I, it's kind of the point I was trying to make, and I actually think maybe it's for advertising, because the advertising is framed around that format. Advertising ruins everything. Once again, Troy
[00:21:43] Brian: well, the 30 minute, sick, like whatever, it's
[00:21:45] Alex: 24 minute, 24 minute
sitcom.
[00:21:48] Brian: Do you remember ch Chuck Wooy would be like,
[00:21:49] Troy: us, can we, can you give us a quick update on your ad sales progress? How's it going?
[00:21:54] Brian: if I had sales progress. Why? What does that have to do
with,
[00:21:57] Troy: mean, are
[00:21:57] Brian: oh,
great. No, I've got some, I've got some proposals loaded up. I, I think they're really like, robust for new partnerships. I'm very
[00:22:06] Troy: Okay.
[00:22:06] Alex: for this podcast or your other,
[00:22:08] Brian: No, nobody wants to advertise on this. No, I'm just kidding. No, I haven't really been pushing it,
[00:22:12] Alex: Well, maybe I should stop saying how much I hate advertising. I
[00:22:15] Brian: Yeah, no, it's not helping in the
[00:22:16] Troy: No, it's not.
[00:22:17] Alex: Can we, sell some
[00:22:18] Troy: Okay, so, so I just want to, so Alex, you said you,
there's a, there's an efficient YouTube based news format you like a lot. Brian, Brian likes
[00:22:27] Brian: Oh, oh, I have one more. And because it's on this and because I attacked the se formm,thing. I like what they're doing with the text message format. I like
[00:22:36] Troy: Mm. Okay. So I would disagree there. Yeah. Yeah.
It's use, it's it's useless. It doesn't, there's not a lot there. It's just, there's a sort of arrogance to say, look who we can text with and put big name here. It's not
useful information. but,
but, but
[00:22:51] Brian: Wait, now I'm the one attacking them.
[00:22:53] Troy: Okay. So I would agree with you.
I like the conversational format. I, I like the sort of snarky, liberal gen Zs that write newsletters. I like the Garbage day guy, Ryan Broderick. I think it's fun to read, even if I have, sometimes I have to sort of hate read it. I like,
the guy you hate Solana Pirate wires. I love that.
But I also loved, I grew up loving the efficient edit on the Wall Street Journal, particularly on the front page because they would sort of dispense with any nonsense and just get just the facts.
And so there was an efficiency of the Wall Street Journal I loved and I found like that I was supposed to be reading The Economist, but it was so fucking dry and clinical that, you know, I appreciated that they had the ultimate format.
you don't have a byline. It's like super well edited, all that stuff, but not the most fun to read.
[00:23:41] Brian: no, you gotta take a break from the Economist. I find no offense to everyone from The Economist, I'm a lifelong reader, but I sometimes take a
[00:23:49] Troy: feeling down, I can watch the, format that I come back I seem to come back to is the travel and eat format. what's,
you know, like David Chang, whatever is ugly, whatever
[00:23:59] Alex: Or some
[00:24:00] Brian: Ordain.
[00:24:01] Troy: Bourdain,
novice,
[00:24:02] Brian: Well, supposedly, Shane Smith wanted to, so again, I don't know why we're talking about se four all this time, but like SE four had a, had a piece, that came out, I guess last night, about Shane Smith and Vice. And it was, it was a little bit all over the place, but it was trying to get at you know, he took a hundred million dollars supposedly off the table or something.
But one of the more interesting tidbits, cuz there
[00:24:20] Troy: Is that a format shunt fried? Is that a format that we. Yeah.
[00:24:25] Brian: it's a lifestyle actually if you do it right,
[00:24:28] Alex: Uhhuh,
[00:24:29] Brian: one of the things in there was that he wanted to,take over that format from like Anthony Bourdain, but he didn't say how long Anthony Bourdain had been gone before. Shane Smith was yeah, I wanna run back the same place now that the guy's
[00:24:40] Troy: I'd watch that. I'd watch that. Hey, Shane, I'd watch you run around
[00:24:44] Alex: I mean, that's very personality based, right? Bonna Petit had kind of a group of people that was really popular during the
[00:24:50] Troy: I took my son to Shane's house one time and my son thought he was the coolest guy in the world. Shane regaled him of stories of laying down a million dollars on the poker table in in Vegas.
[00:24:59] Alex: Shane seems to be like the guy that's gonna teach your son how to smoke his first cigarette It's
[00:25:04] Brian: Trey, your, your, your relatability, your relatability score just went through the roof
[00:25:08] Troy: Is, is that the No, but what are we doing here? What are we doing with this
pipe? We're trying to be relatable. Is that what we're, I mean, I don't understand
that It's a true story. I think it's interesting for the audience. My son had a
[00:25:20] Brian: No, I like it. I like it.
[00:25:21] Troy: I'm not trying to be relatable. I'm trying to be real.
[00:25:24] Brian: It's like puck. What is the puck form? If John, John, if you're listening, I think John has a new format with his Saturday missive and.
[00:25:31] Troy: Well, his format is,
it was an incredible.
week. It was an incredible.
[00:25:36] Alex: But I
think I, so here's the thing that actually, the reason I wanted to talk about podcasts started when we were getting this advice that we may or may not follow, that the biggest growth in podcasting is video podcast. that just concept drives me up the wall because the second you make a video, it is no longer a podcast.
Cuz to me, as far as formats go, podcasting is not the format. Podcasting is the distribution, system, which is, and let's be clear, let's not, let's Spotify take over this shit,because it is a, the last free open system, Like newsletters, which is an audio file, an open standard audio file, and an RSS feed.
Two of the most beautiful things ever created,
[00:26:19] Brian: yeah. And we can thank Adam Curry for this
[00:26:22] Alex: Let's thank Adam
Curry
for this,
[00:26:24] Brian: my childhood, MTV
[00:26:26] Alex: and, and I think that this idea, now that we get this, idea of a podcast confused when there's a, set of audio formats that work wor Yeah. And they, and some audio formats work better over the podcasting network.
Sm video formats work better over
[00:26:40] Troy: there are certain things that get you, get you riled up, and I really like it because it's sort of
like the best of your Austrian side and the best of your French side come
out and you wanna lock someone in a basement,
[00:26:51] Brian: yeah. He's furiously like stroking his beard.
For those, since we're not a video podcast,
[00:26:56] Troy: if you violate some
kind of, technical principle with Alex and you're also like,
[00:27:01] Brian: that's why I don't bring up rss. I can tell Alex is one of those guys who flies off the handle when you start to talk about rss.
[00:27:07] Alex: I just think that the idea of, creating formats is really interesting on the internet, especially when you create formats that are inherently portable. So I think that the audio conver the conversation format that we have now, right? We're recording videos for all of these.
We could add the them in, in, into a video vow. but then once we move it into YouTube, as a video format, are you guys still gonna say, we make a podcast?
Or are you gonna say, we, we make a show,
[00:27:31] Troy: we're gonna say
[00:27:31] Alex: we make a sh
[00:27:32] Troy: I don't know. I
don't think it matters, Alex, but I think I'm gonna dress better probably. You should let me know if we're gonna do that. I'll, I'll get gussied up a bit.
[00:27:40] Brian: Yeah, I mean, I think of podcasting as a few formats outside of the true, I mean, true crime has is obviously become a format. The, you know, serial, it
[00:27:48] Troy: our format? Why, but may what's our format? Because I think we need to start innovating a little bit,
[00:27:52] Brian: oh, I mean this is, this is the most hallowed format in podcasting.
It's the three, it's the three white dudes
format.
[00:27:59] Troy: yeah.
[00:27:59] Alex: come on. 3, white guys with beers recording a
[00:28:02] Brian: Yeah, I mean,
we've, if we were, only
one of us is in Brooklyn,
[00:28:06] Alex: I usually don't give a shit about that because I think we should be happy if anybody makes content. but I do feel like a little bit kind of self-conscious sometimes when I tell anyone at a party, oh, I make a podcast as okay, you and a billion other dudes that look like you.
Great. but I do think we're building a good product. and when it comes to format innovation, I don't know if you remember this, but in the beginning especially, what we were trying to do is in the edit, put little musical blips that would happen and kind of, it would be like we're closing one tab and opening another tab.
we're, we're joining this conversation, but it's
[00:28:37] Troy: Yeah. What happened? What happened to that? Did it work?
[00:28:39] Alex: I got self-conscious. I hon honestly, like one of our first con word of one, our first reviews was like, great podcast, but kill the music. And I felt like maybe
I'd outstretched the
idea of the
[00:28:48] Troy: I think the music is the
best thing about this
[00:28:50] Alex: in the
[00:28:50] Troy: to be honest. It's the o
[00:28:53] Brian: good be No, but there are different, so like I remember, my former podcast producer, Didi Sangal. she was, we were talking about the podcast and I, I was like, well, maybe we should change this or that. And she was like, you are not the value proposition . I was like, I just thought it was hilarious that she said that to me.
her point was this was a specific format and it was a guest driven format where, the host is it's like typical, in events, the moderator role. Like I compare it to being, the holder. I have to do sports again. The holder, like on a, on a football team, it's the most thankless job in the world.
No quarterback should ever do that. Just the punter give it to the punter because nobody notices you unless you screw up. you're supposed to get out of the way. That's the format. and then there's more host driven, I think Bill Simmons is way more host driven, format. And then this is
[00:29:37] Troy: what about your buddy Jason? Do you think he's the world's greatest moderator?
[00:29:40] Brian: You know, he used to say that when I worked for him at my first job, and, he had these things called the Rising Tide Summits, and Jason always was obsessed with Charlie Rose and he always believed that he could be and should be Charlie Rose.
[00:29:57] Alex: Doesn't, this hasn't, hasn't aged well. he's very good at coming up with,a military analogies all this tough guy stuff. there's a lot of samurai talk
[00:30:06] Brian: oh, he was always doing that too.
[00:30:08] Alex: Yeah. It always is a sign that somebody feels really tough when they keep mentioning these
things.
[00:30:12] Troy: but I do think that we're gonna need to innovate our format a little bit. so just wanna be
[00:30:16] Alex: we need a,
[00:30:17] Brian: we're doing a podcast about our podcast.
[00:30:19] Alex: Yes, we are, now. Okay, let's,
[00:30:21] Troy: our format? is conversational. we are all have operational expertise. I think there's quite a high level of media, literacy on the podcast.
Hopefully that's what's about media. what else should we do? we do the good product corner. I don't know if that's worth anything, but should we be bringing guests on? Guys?
[00:30:39] Brian: you know how I feel about
this? I don't think so.
I
mean, I, maybe we can put in the show notes, there was a really good podcast, but you can also read it,Ben Thompson did with, Bill Simmons because bill Simmons has, has been, I think he doesn't get enough credit for being like an actual, media innovator.
He saw a lot of things way before other people saw them and executed on them,
[00:30:59] Troy: smart. He's, that's a great podcast. He's really smart.
[00:31:02] Brian: I think the way he describes podcasts to me, that's the most
[00:31:05] Troy: Did you like that line in it, Brian, about I'd listen to a sports podcaster, but I liked it best when they would go off on a tangent and talk about the Oscars.
[00:31:13] Brian: Yeah.
[00:31:13] Alex: Yeah.
[00:31:13] Brian: just to tie it back to what Alex was saying, I think it's really difficult to disentangle the ambient nature of podcasts. I don't think many people are glued in, like they're probably doing something else when they're listening to this, walking or whatever.
And I think that, I think the video part would screw that up because the digressions and stuff like this would be very annoying to me in a video.
[00:31:35] Alex: that ties into your concept of modes, right? That people are in modes, Troy, you open up a specific app or specific channel because you're in that mode and you want a specific type
[00:31:45] Troy: Well, hey, I, I just, I want to be clear about the video thing. I don't think it should change the nature of our format or our podcast. I like it for two reasons. I think that some people like to consume. media in a way that's slightly passive on YouTube. I think some people just wanna look and see what you look like and understand you better as human beings.
But I think more importantly, podcasts are incredibly difficult to find and make part of one's media habit. It's the biggest challenge with growth in podcasts. It's why, so few of them sustain and get beyond, 20, 30, 40 episodes. It's why that the top 1% of podcasts have 4,500 listeners an episode.
just to get in the top 1%, you don't have to have that many listeners. Gives you a sense of
perspective. And they're hard to find and they're hard to make part of your media diet. couple things. One is the YouTube algorithm will often slide this into. the stream of someone that might not have otherwise have found you.
So I think it's a good way for us to build audience. And you know that it's interesting and I haven't played with it yet, but the new Spotify app is trying to solve the same problem. So Spotify is becoming sort of TikTok eyes, is that the right, the right way to say? So there's gonna be
more videos, associated with the music and they're doing these little segments of audio programming where you can kind of flip through the money spots of different podcasts so that you can get a sense of what's inside.
and that's kind of a neat idea.
[00:33:10] Brian: I wonder why they're doing that. What kind of advertising is the last advertising that gets high
[00:33:14] Troy: Well, your man, bill Simmons was, very clear about that, that he thought that was a huge advantage for them, that very
few. He works there, I
get it. But yeah. Yeah. Yeah. how
[00:33:26] Alex: what? What is the advantage?
[00:33:27] Troy: being able to build an a meaningful advertising business against podcasts.
[00:33:31] Brian: when we talk about formats in, in this instance, it's about marketing and, it has nothing to do with the product. I think my sort of, I don't say problem with overrating the importance of, packaging cuz it's just, it's packaging, but what's in the package is more important than the packaging.
at least I wanna believe that. And I think over and over again on the internet, I've been proven completely wrong on that like distribution always wins. there is very little reason for podcasts to be in video. You're trying to solve some different problem. you're not solving a problem really that exists for the audience.
That's not the job.
it's a marketing.
[00:34:06] Alex: my hypothesis with that is that, and, and it's tied to the Spotify thing, is that it's a discovery issue. podcasting, has terrible discovery. It's not Apple's by far the leading, podcasting app. and discovery is not great on it.
[00:34:19] Troy: Apparently Spotify and and, and iTunes are neck and neck,
[00:34:22] Alex: well, not in our statistics, but maybe, and so the issue is discovery, right? And so, music streaming is a terrible business, so they're trying to move into something when they can generate more revenue. but they also know that it's really hard to, create podcast, discovery.
So they're doing that. Just taking us back to YouTube for a second. I think that a lot of reason podcasts move to YouTube is that YouTube has a better discovery engine and people end up playing YouTube videos in the background. So still consuming more or less like they would consume something,
like a traditional podcast.
is it
[00:34:53] Troy: Yes. There's something
wrong with you.
[00:34:55] Brian: that's a, great meeting. Move
[00:34:56] Alex: but I feel like there's no, when we are talking about adding, it's just a failing in the whole podcast ecosystem.
[00:35:03] Brian: right? But that doesn't, you don't, you shouldn't solve that with a new format that has nothing to do with, making the product better.
[00:35:08] Alex: I think that actually what Spotify is doing is not great for podcasting because they are trying to get, keep podcasting in the end. So for us, like I don't see this as a great move. I don't know if it'll work. I don't understand the mode you're in when you're consuming content like this.
[00:35:22] Troy: Here's what I don't understand. what Brian advice would you give either a content marketer, sorry, Alex, or someone who's wants to innovate in their media company? what advice would you give them about a format, Brian, because I'm not clear on whether you think it's a thing.
This morning you said to me, I want to get in this conversation thing with you, cuz I like this format, but I often hear you being incredibly dismissive of format as a differentiator. what advice would you give me?
[00:35:50] Brian: To tie it back to a audience need I think formats that don't actually benefit the product are just sh sticks. And there are a lot of formats out there in my view they're a solution in search of a problem. remember, , they were gonna innovate news by
making a swipeable news.
It was a shtick. It was a shtick. the problem is, you need to improve the actual underlying product. And so when formats can be applied to an actual user need, then I think that that is great. And to me, like a conversational format that I, the one I was trying to pitch you on is I think right now, like we're moving from this time of too much explanation and too more like exploration I think conversations are, that's what they are at their heart is exploring issues and having people from different, points of view sort of pick at things and stuff.
And I think that that is like an interesting area. I think that's, People like Joe Rogan and stuff are popular because I think people recognize this as an incredibly complex world and we don't all have the answers no matter what the New York Times and Washington Post says.
[00:36:54] Alex: you know what I, I find maybe appealing about this format is that you can listen to something, and allow yourself to disagree with at least one person. And so you're, you're listening to stuff that allows you to not be in full agreement. Like I listen to the All End podcast, even though. You know, I don't particularly like or particularly agree with any of them. I just enjoy listening to that, conversation. While if I listen to something that is much more edited, it feels like the entirety of that product needs to be something that I consume and agree with, which doesn't feel as, as rich to me.
Does that make sense?
[00:37:27] Brian: the New York Times, the daily format with Michael Barbar, acting, likeshocked at the most basic things that he knows.
So you're telling me Donald Trump was trying to get, he was like, well, of course the fuck are you fucking like an idiot? you know, this
[00:37:41] Troy: You're totally right. Yeah.
[00:37:44] Brian: drives me crazy.
[00:37:45] Troy: You
[00:37:45] Alex: know what? I, I used to listen to that show, and, you told me that exact same thing about why you don't like it. And now there's no way I can listen to that show every time he goes,
[00:37:54] Brian: He knows the answers and I understand. I understand. I get it. But you gotta do it in a little bit of a more surgical manner. But also I think the daily itself is a good example cuz we had this conversation a little bit on text. to me that's a radio format that's just distributed through whatever the RSS rapper, Adam Curry and Dave Weiner are still fighting over.
it's one of the most popular podcasts but to me it's just a radio show.
[00:38:17] Alex: I always, like the way, at the end of the daily, he says, and here's other things,
need to know today. You need to, you need
to
know today.
should we, wrap
this
up?
[00:38:26] Brian: good product?
[00:38:27] Alex: we go into good product? Although I wish we came up with a new format for this show, I think we should come up with something.
And, Troy to your interview question. an interesting thing I've seen people do with format on podcasts, because it's an RSS feed, is that they'll drop, mini episodes or different type of episodes within the feed. So like midweek, we could have an interview, a little side that is an interview of you and David Sachs having a
[00:38:49] Troy: Well, that would be cool, I think I could suggest a few things and, you know, in the
spirit of, of everybody just contributing, alt. Lay out a couple.
Brian Goldberg wanted to come onto the podcast and you guys were like,
well, I don't want this to be some like, PR thing for Brian.
And I was like, no, he'll just contribute to whatever the topic is and we'll guide him around that. So it wasn't a super popular, suggestion I felt, but I think getting a segment with someone who could contribute to, to the discussion that we're having that week would be fun. I would like to do that.
[00:39:21] Alex: Well, let's try it out and let's ask the audience. If you can send us ideas of who you'd like us to
[00:39:25] Troy: personally, I'd love to do a music corner. I have
another idea I'd like to do. I
know Brian, you hate that idea, but, you know, I've got
lot. I,
[00:39:32] Brian: it.
[00:39:32] Troy: I'd like to do a little
music
[00:39:34] Brian: like the, it's like putting the, YouTube the, like the fish clip at the end
[00:39:38] Troy: Yeah. But I would never put a fish clip at the end. So you so watch your mouth. I would never do that because that, that.
[00:39:45] Brian: like you're sensitive about the
[00:39:47] Troy: Well, I also have another
idea, which is I want Jen Alpha coroner. I want to bring my son. Is he Jen Alpha or Gen Z or whatever? He's
not a millennial. Yeah, gen Z. So I want to get, I want to get the pers, he knows more about na formats native to social media than, than us. And I'd like to get he, he's very smart.
Barry Media s I'd like to get him on here so that we have a very, very different perspective cuz we are old now and I thought that would be a little fun segment for us. ask the Gen Z or whatever. Do you have any other
suggestions that we could weave into this?
[00:40:20] Alex: I like the idea of having the podcast set up so that we can naturally call somebody and have them call in. So it is not, it feels less prepared, just like, dial a number and call them in. I like that.
[00:40:30] Troy: Yeah, I'd like to have my own
sound effects that I can hit it when I want them. Alex, can I.
[00:40:36] Alex: Yeah. You want your fart sounds and your,
[00:40:38] Troy: Whatever. Well, you know,
like horns and all that stuff. And I, I want to be
able to also play little musical clips at different times.
[00:40:45] Brian: So just to be clear, I would love to have Brian Goldberg on. I think where it was before was they were going through their layoffs and of course I was gonna bring up the layoffs. Okay. Just the same way as if I ran into Brian down here in Miami at some place I would like. So if as long as he's like, a PR handler is not involved, I'm all for it.
Otherwise, I like bringing in people with outside perspectives
[00:41:07] Troy: The PR thing won't, no, we can't do that. Won't work. No. We tried to
get someone else on who's the
CEO of a media company and then it became this back and forth with her PR comp. with her pr. No, we're not, we can't do that. It won't work.
[00:41:20] Alex: No, we're not gonna do that.
We're not gonna do that. but this was a great conversation about formats. I think we should revisit it. We should also try some new format stuff next week. Let's, let's try it out.
Let's give us, let's, let's try a new format thing every so often, at
[00:41:33] Troy: well, we have to stick to the good product format, Alex. We need that.
[00:41:36] Alex: Yes, that
seems to be
[00:41:37] Brian: Good product. Do you have one, Troy, or
[00:41:41] Troy: Well, I'm not doing it this week. I've handed the
basant. Brian,
[00:41:43] Brian: Could I do a bad product?
[00:41:45] Troy: you can start with the bad, but you have to go to a good, always.
[00:41:48] Alex: Okay. I, if you want, you can do a bad product. I'll do a good product.
[00:41:51] Brian: Beach is a bad product. I mean, there's two shootings again. South Beach Spring break at South Beach is a terrible product. every year there's shootings they have to impose a curfew for the third year in a row. it's a broken product.
They need to reform, a lot of the whole like South Beach party scene. I don't know, that's maybe I'm just getting
[00:42:10] Troy: We need the Law and Order Party in Florida.
[00:42:13] Brian: Yeah, I don't know. I don't feel like people should get shot during spring break.
[00:42:18] Troy: There you go. You heard it
here. Now. What's your
good product? Brian? Brian.
[00:42:22] Brian: that's all I have. I don't have
a
good product.
I don't consume a lot of products. No, I just have
a bad product. Oh, well the one good product in South Beach, I noticed I did go to the beach before the shooting started on Saturday, I get out of there before, the sun goes down. I noticed that there, and I used to live here, but I lived in North Beach and it's totally different than South Beach.
There's people that go around with these backpacks and they have beer and frozen drinks and plastic,bags or something like this, almost an IV kit. And then they just, they just take Venmo . I think that's a great service. And I think that I was like, you know, this gives me hope for capitalism.
this is the best
[00:42:58] Troy: Yeah, that's cool. That's sort of like craft retail, Ali, third world country,
it's great. But you know what, you had said earlier, Brian, that your good product this week was LinkedIn, which I thought was super cringey. and now you're not even gonna bring it up.
[00:43:11] Brian: Well, no, I just said that we should use, we should consider, we should zag and like instead of going into YouTube or going along with Spotify's plan, I think LinkedIn is a very underrated platform for reaching people
[00:43:26] Troy: It's true. But you know who you're gonna reach. People that love and make and sell advertising and that's gonna upset Alex,
[00:43:32] Alex: No, it's okay. I can,
look, I love you both. And that's, what you dream about
[00:43:35] Troy: I'm a
journalist. Alex, I'm
[00:43:37] Alex: uh,
[00:43:38] Brian: I do.
[00:43:39] Alex: joy, you don't see one surface of the internet without thinking what type of ad could go on top of it. And I still love you. I think LinkedIn is great.
We should do it.
I have, I have a good
I have a good product and then we can wrap it up. I'm gonna, and I've talked about this before, I think Reddit. A really good product. but it has a, it's very steep learning curve. which I, and the reason that I'm bringing it up is because there was an interview with a new chief product officer at Reddit and how they're trying to make it easier, but I think it's an exceptional product, and I've heard it somewhere, I don't remember who it was, but that Facebook is where you go to hate people, you know, and Reddit is where you go to love people you don't know.
I do think that if you get into the right community and you look at comments on Reddit are truly, truly valuable. and I just wish I knew how to engage with that community more. so yeah,
[00:44:31] Brian: So I would just say this cuz it goes to your you know Sriram Krishna, the guy's, he's now Twitter.
I don't think I'm
[00:44:38] Troy: No. He is
an A
[00:44:39] Brian: anyway, yeah, yeah, yeah. Sriram has this video that sort of went around a little bit about how he hates jobs to be done. Cause I just mentioned oh, you gotta have a job to be done and Reddit is a perfect example of that.
And that they try to force you to, download their app when they're like, no, you can't, this won't work in a browser. It's no, I think it will work in a browser. I just wanna see your Reddit thread. it's funny because there's so many of these trade offs and that's why his point was this job to be done thing is so naive and it doesn't work in the real world.
Because even at a place like Reddit, at the end of the day, , they gotta make money. And so they tell you that you gotta download the app like Yelp would always do. It's annoying. Just like the web works fine. A brows it's fine. Webpage,
[00:45:20] Alex: yeah. Just, you know, make things available where people are. I don't understand why you wouldn't want to do that,
[00:45:26] Troy: Did you just say at the end,
did you just say at the end of the day, is that the sort of corporate aphorism of the podcast? We should do that as a segment.
[00:45:34] Alex: Corporate.
[00:45:35] Troy: Yeah.
you know, double click on those at the
end of the day. Yeah.
[00:45:39] Alex: By the way, the podcast seems to be getting more and more popular. I guess it's better than getting less and less popular, but I'm, surprised. I'm very excited about all our, comments and, reviews coming in. It's
[00:45:49] Brian: Oh good. I think it's from reading Anthem.
Oh,
[00:45:52] Troy: I made
[00:45:53] Brian: but I'm just saying it's Did you, you
[00:45:57] Alex: Okay,
[00:45:58] Troy: Mm-hmm.
[00:45:59] Alex: So you are Troy four 20.
Shit.
[00:46:03] Troy: Yeah.
[00:46:03] Brian: actually thinking that this morning, like how, like when you sit at media companies, you make these like decisions that you just sort of justify it. We're just like, oh my God, this ag campaign's coming up shorts. let's just pay some sort of click farm abroad and we just won't think about it that much.
people make these trade offs all the time. I try not to be moralistic about it, but that's how it is.
[00:46:24] Troy: I, one last thing
before we go, speaking of the podcast, Should we change the art out?
[00:46:28] Alex: art.
[00:46:29] Troy: Yeah. You're the
[00:46:30] Alex: Yeah. We
can't
[00:46:30] Brian: What do you, what? You
don't like it?
[00:46:32] Alex: art and just for everyone I make the art, I make the music
[00:46:35] Brian: Alex does pretty much all of it.
[00:46:36] Alex: well, that I don't do the edit. we have our great
[00:46:39] Brian: Do you want the still the three of us? Can I move to the left
[00:46:42] Alex: we can organize it whichever way you want. So once again, if anybody's listening to this
[00:46:47] Brian: Wait, I forget. Where are you, Troy? Are you at the left or are you in the Christ position?
[00:46:51] Alex: Yeah. Troy's in the center. Of
[00:46:52] Troy: The art. I'm, I'm Canadian, I'm center. I'm center. Wright
[00:46:55] Alex: Yeah. I'm leftist, and
[00:46:57] Troy: yeah. But Alex, last week I thought it was a great departure for you to come out swinging for all your tech bro friends. well,
Brian was like going non-linear on the
nasty, actually was very, I think prophetic Brian to see how this thing you
know, started to just kind of like become, this divisive, massive, divisive issue.
and it didn't hurt. And I saw it and I should have flagged it. when Cal Canis did that all caps tweet that was like, you should be very fucking afraid. Like that one, I was like, this guy is an opportunistic weasel
what, what is he doing? and so everybody has gone after him for this caps thing.
It's
[00:47:34] Alex: Okay. all right. I, I'm, I'm meant to. I, I am, I'm, I am late for my next thing, but
just because you mentioned you mentioned Calcan. Okay. No, because you mentioned ccan. Okay. I'll try, I'll try to stay calm that guy. Okay. he came on the podcast afterwards talking about that and saying that they didn't understand that people were doing a bit.
And then people will know Jason Calcan know that he's a joker and a humorist. He is one of the least funny people that I know. He is definitely one of the least funny
[00:47:59] Troy: And, and by the way, further the, you're totally right about this. He wasn't joking when he said it. It
was such a
[00:48:05] Alex: not joking that that bullshit of saying I was just joking is the most weasley fucking like spineless shit you can do about anything. Own it. Right. At least Sax owns his bullshit,
[00:48:17] Brian: Well,
[00:48:18] Troy: first, Senator
[00:48:19] Brian: He's ah, it's just kidding.
[00:48:23] Alex: Well, yeah.
Wait till
[00:48:25] Brian: going Snacks for orange jumpsuit.
[00:48:29] Troy: he'll, he'll wear a Montclair matching orange Montclair beanie with it, so that's good. He'll look good.
[00:48:34] Brian: Thanks so much for listening this week. we'll back next week with, possibly a change format.
[00:48:38] Alex: All
right. Sorry you guys. Thanks for ruining my day with Jason Gannis talk.
[00:48:43] Brian: I'm gonna go sell some
[00:48:44] Troy: Right.
[00:48:44] Alex: All right,
[00:48:45] Troy: See ya.
[00:48:45] Alex: All right, love you
both. Bye. 


PVA S1E29
PVA S1E29
[00:00:00] Cold Open
[00:00:00] Troy: hey, Brian. I, I wanted to make a list to see how many ad formats we could name in under 30 seconds. and
they're ways that you try to funnel attention from a place where people don't want to give it to you, to something that's kind of, useful for an advertiser. And I was like, okay, ready? Skins, takeovers, expanders, popups, floating players, retargeting, content marketing, hyper text links in photo advertising, inline video.
[00:00:29] Alex: Skyscraper
leaderboard,
[00:00:31] Troy: Sky,
[00:00:32] Alex: medium, rectangle,
[00:00:34] Brian: Nice. Here we go.
[00:00:35] Welcome
[00:00:58] Brian: Welcome to People versus Algorithms, a conversation about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Morrisy. I write the Rebooting newsletter and host the Rebooting Show podcast Each week. I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor Troy Young. Writer of the People Versus Algorithms newsletter and Alex Schleifer, former head of design at Airbnb and founder of Universal Entities.
This week we're trying something new. We are welcoming our first guest, someone close to home, Troy's own son eb, who breaks down how he and other Gen Z people. Feel about advertising. Spoiler alert, they don't like it and don't think it works as every generation that came before them believes. No wonder influencers and creators are becoming to ad networks.
My money, however, is still on advertising, finding a way. It is the lubricant of capitalism and I still believe capitalism is going to be with us for some time to come. But we also discuss and we continue our discussion of formats by examining the role of ad. And I love this topic because I find ad formats a fascinating one.
You know, anytime you're making a media format, it's difficult. You're trying to make something make sense to a whole bunch of different people. It becomes infinitely more complicated when you're trying to solve for the needs of different constituencies. The audience and advertisers and these needs are often in opposition and trade-offs are defining feature of life, and that's when end up seeing what people value the most.
My belief is digital media has mostly. In terms of ad formats, despite its many efforts to create the digital equivalent of the 32nd spot or the full page magazine ad instead, digital ad formats have been either gimmicks or completely adversarial to the user experience. It's no wonder that SEB uses an ad blocker or the digital advertising itself has become little more than a data harvesting machine living and dying on direct response as opposed to brand advertising, the powers, TV and magazines.
I hope you enjoy this conversation. And if you do have a chance, please leave us a rating and a review on Apple, Spotify, or wherever you listen to this podcast and send in your feedback. My email is brian rebooting.com. Now onto the conversation.
[00:03:01] Troy: Hey
[00:03:02] Brian: guys. Welcome to the podcast. are we switching
rolls? Is that, is that your
[00:03:07] Troy: Yeah, today we're here. here's my little setup. Brian, I don't know what you were thinking. I tried to get this outta you guys in the text thread.
I'm sorry if it felt like I was yelling or being brusk or whatever. I
just thought it would be fun to mix the format up a little bit. My son and I get into these kind of discussions slash arguments about things why the fuck would the government ban TikTok and what good does it do? And I thought if we were talking about advertising one time we were driving in the car and Seb started telling me about how his ad blocking wasn't working. I was a little dismayed that he used an ad blocker and I said to him, see this car you're in The comfort that you've become used to. This is all because of advertising.
So could you please turn the ad blocker off?
it was funny. But I was annoyed at the time because I, for a lot of my life, I've made it, living, extracting money from advertisers
[00:03:55] Alex: do. Do you think the cigarette executive was telling his son that at some point when his son said, I'm gonna quit smoking now,
[00:04:02] Troy: while his son was vaping in the car.
[00:04:04] Alex: Yeah, that's right. the reason you can buy this vape is because I've been selling cigarettes.
[00:04:08] Troy: is the idea of this segment to be seamlessly with what we're gonna be talking about with the ad format stuff, or is
[00:04:13] Alex: Unclear.
[00:04:14] Troy: No, no. this is about ad formats and advertising online, and I thought we would at some point be able to cut in from the perspective, from someone like Seb, from a Gen Zer.
[00:04:24] Brian: No, I guess he hates advertising. So does everyone.
[00:04:26] Troy: Okay. But are you guys ready for that? I mean, do you wanna meet
him and say hello and see what he has to
say about it? Let's see if it is shot.
Okay.
Hey guys. Alex, you know Sab haven't seen him forever. Brian,
this is my son, Seth.
[00:04:35] Alex: Good to see you.
[00:04:36] Brian: Welcome to
[00:04:37] Seb: you too.
[00:04:37] Brian: Pod
[00:04:37] Alex: Is this weird?
[00:04:38] Seb: It's a little weird. It's a
little weird, but it'll be fun,
[00:04:40] Brian: it's gotta be weird.
[00:04:42] Alex: Yeah.
[00:04:42] Brian: I can't imagine listening to my dad's podcast or much less being on my dad's podcast,
[00:04:47] Troy: Yeah. It's really fucking embarrassing. Yeah,
it was
[00:04:50] Brian: everyone involved So let's make this as good as possible. So,
[00:04:53] Troy: except there was a time when we were driving across the country. Remember that when we got your car and it
was that sort of existential moment for me and I, I asked you if we could do a podcast. We had that discussion about it cuz we were super we were totally nerding out on podcasts on that trip.
[00:05:08] Seb: Was that the, the inspiration, the start of the podcast journey?
[00:05:11] Troy: No, Alex actually was more of the inspiration. He was insistent that we make one. You remember Alex RightSo?
[00:05:16] Seb: Of course, his hair's a little more gray now, though.
[00:05:18] Troy: He's
been through a lot.
[00:05:19] Seb: You're welcome.
[00:05:20] Alex: I've been through so, so much,
we, uh,try to,record this every week. and Troy is, has been doing a good job being on time. I'm really proud of him. So you should be proud of your dad. He's, he's doing a good job with this.
but Troy apparently had a, an idea for this format. So, Troy, why don't you throw us into this
situation.
[00:05:37] Troy: I don't know how far back you want to go, but here's the thing. Alex hates advertising. Brian and I have spent a lot of time and Alex thinking about digital advertising and trying to make it work. Brian had suggested that this episode we talk. Add formats, which I, I think what you're getting at Brian was, an extension of last week's format conversation that turned out better than expected.
It was not only, I think you said you got some good feedback. I got some feedback on it cuz I also put it into my newsletter this week. but anyway, so we've now moved on to ad formats and, I've had a couple conversations with Seb in the past about advertising on the internet and I, I think that we're old now and it would be always, it would be good to get perspective of some fresh meat.
[00:06:17] Seb: Well, I'm definitely on the same page as, as Alex I was thinking about it today. You told me to kind of keep advertising at the front of my mind and I, I was just thinking about the future of it and how the world that it has in my life and I have just always hated it. Hated advertisements, wanted to get away from them at all costs.
So,
[00:06:34] Troy: Do you remember when I almost kicked you outta the car when you told me you used an ad blocker?
[00:06:37] Seb: yep. You said this, you were like, this ad blocker pays for this car, that kinda stuff.
[00:06:41] Troy: Or the ads. Yeah.
[00:06:42] Seb: Yeah, the ads. The ads,
[00:06:44] Brian: Didn't you switch sides then and start working with the ad blocking people?
[00:06:47] Troy: never worked with them though. They did want me to invest in the company. Yeah. So what do you guys have for seb? Brian, come on. What do you wanna ask him?
[00:06:53] Brian: I wanna avoid being like the ask the young person cuz it's a, it's a bad role, to play. are we just talking about like advertising in general?
[00:07:01] Troy: No, I think digital stuff, Seb is, spends a lot of time, he's very online as they would say.
I wonder if he even understands why, what advertising's purpose is.
[00:07:10] Brian: Do you avoid advertising at all costs? I.
[00:07:12] Seb: yeah, like the only time I really see advertisements are, are on TikTok and on tv. So on YouTube, I don't see any of them. I have this experience where like if a company has figured out how to kind of get around my ad blocker and they wanna show me like five ads in a row, I usually just won't even watch what they're showing me.
I just don't care enough to sit through five obnoxious ads about something that I'm never gonna buy.
[00:07:34] Brian: Yeah. What about on TikTok?
[00:07:36] Seb: the way it works on TikTok is that you don't have to sit through it. It's just like you scroll, and then it's gonna be the same way that the algorithms show one of someone's videos,
it's just like an advertisement instead.
And so
they try to trick you into thinking it's not an advertisement. So it usually just takes me a couple seconds to look down and see if it's sponsored or not. Then I just skip. if it was something interesting that I was interested in, I maybe would stay on it a little longer. But generally, like it's just shit that you don't need.
[00:08:02] Alex: have you ever bought something from an ad that you saw on the internet?
[00:08:05] Seb: I don't think so.
No.
[00:08:06] Alex: Wow.
[00:08:07] Troy: That's not true.
[00:08:09] Brian: you
[00:08:09] Seb: what, what, have I
bought? What have I bought?
[00:08:11] Troy: I don't know. It's some electronic thing that you bought a guitar or something like that.
[00:08:15] Brian: Are you guys in the same.
[00:08:17] Seb: Yeah, we are
[00:08:18] Troy: I'm, we're three floors apart.
[00:08:20] Brian: Oh, three Floors,
[00:08:21] Seb: so for example, I bought this Neil Young hat recently, and that wasn't necessarily advertising, but I was on the Neil Young subreddit and I saw someone had bought that hat and I wanted to know where he bought it. And so like, he'd linked someone's Instagram store.
that's, I guess, a form of advertising, but it's not direct paid advertising.
and that
would be the stuff that I would be.
[00:08:39] Alex: would you say that hanging out the Neil Young subreddit is the,traditional way for Gen Zers to spend their time
[00:08:50] Seb: Probably not.
Probably not. There's not a lot of activity on
[00:08:53] Alex: you know, I think Gen Z has been, has shown to be pretty diverse in its behaviors, but do you like ever talk about advertising with your friends? Do you think, people of your age, outside of the folks in the Neil Young Subrena, do you think they watch advertising?
Do people talk about advertising? say Super Bowl or even like big events like that. Is that, is that something that
registers in your.
[00:09:12] Brian: old? But those, those days are like decades ago, aren't they? I do not remember sitting around the campfire talking about advertising.
[00:09:19] Alex: I talked about this GI
[00:09:21] Brian: Well that's cuz you guys were at the ad network campfire. But
I wasn't
[00:09:25] Troy: Love
[00:09:26] Alex: I mean, is it, is this something that registers in people's lives today? , Like, oh, I saw this thing, or is it, all influencer based?
[00:09:32] Seb: I think it's primarily influencer based and like a normal advertisement is just an annoyance that you have to sit through generally.
[00:09:38] Alex: I agree
with that.
[00:09:39] Troy: But Seb, you watch a lot of basketball. Do you see stuff on there that influences you
[00:09:43] Seb: No. It's like five advertisements and I've seen them probably hundreds of times at this point. And they're all very dull. Yeah, they're insurance or like Google Pixel phone. I don't care about the Google Pixel phone.
What about dc? You've been drinking a lot of dc. Have you been seeing DC ads?
well, yeah, I've seen a couple, but that hasn't influenced by desire to drink diet. But I will see like a TikTok of someone drinking a Diet Coke, but
it's not It's just like a person enjoying themselves,
hanging out, drinking a Diet Coke, and then I'll be like, okay, maybe
[00:10:11] Brian: Do you care if that person got paid by dc I didn't know. We're calling it DC
[00:10:14] Seb: think, yeah, I think it would feel a little disingenuous if they were getting paid. I wouldn't be as happy about it.
[00:10:20] Brian: I got bad news for you. So
[00:10:21] Seb: They're all being paid. Oh, no.
[00:10:25] Troy: So what advices would you give a company, like people advertise because that's how they grow their businesses, it used to be way more systematic before the internet. or simpler, maybe not more systematic, what would you do if you were like the head of advertising of big Co.
[00:10:39] Seb: what would I do? I mean, but I, I was thinking about advertising today and I thought of it like you were asking me, you, you've mentioned something like, well, it's a lot of people have their, their livelihoods in advertising. there needs to be a way to figure out how to keep it going in some capacity.
I was thinking about workers at Detroit car factories, things become antiquated and then people those fields get destroyed and changed and become new. and I feel like very direct paying for a slot in a TV situation or something like that is just not gonna exist anymore.
I think people really respond better to like more natural grassroots advertising, which is someone just supporting your product on TikTok or something. Likethat's the best way for someone to advertise something is like having a good product and someone using it. like if people are wearing a sweater that they love on TikTok that they just got from this company, then
That's great promotion. I mean, I guess that's been going
on forever. But that's, that's what I would say.
[00:11:30] Brian: it's like word of mouth, right? nobody likes advertising. And so, people usually try to get away from advertising. We didn't have technological tools when I was growing up, so we just went to the bathroom during commercial breaks.
so every, all the advertisers then try to make their advertising look. , just regular people recommending , So I don't know if you end up in a better situation because it's, it's basically like you can't trust anyone because
[00:11:52] Troy: Hey Brian, do you know of a good place to get car insurance?
[00:11:56] Brian: I don't even remember all those, buzz marketing agencies and stuff. They're like, we're gonna make your grassroots marketing for you and get young people talking about your products.
[00:12:05] Alex: advertising sh*t to people is gonna stay there because, you know, an influencer advertises something. Mr. Beast's advertising his own stuff. The thing that's seems to be changing is the middleman, The long agency meeting with the lunch where you decide on a creative, and then somebody, a writer that's actually, secretly wanting to write a screenplay, puts something up on, on the thing, and you sit through this, 4h presentation and ends up in this 30sec thing.
And everybody's motivations are to create a beautiful ad. and then that goes onto a slot on tv. that stuff feels crazy.
[00:12:35] Brian: Yeah,
[00:12:35] Alex: especially if as an influencer, I can be the middle man. I can be give me the money. I'll say Your sh*t's good if I do it honestly, it'll probably perform better all the rest of that stuff is gone.
Said is
[00:12:47] Brian: most of it.
[00:12:48] Seb: Yeah, I totally agree with that. I think that is, that is what it is. It's like kind of how, how every other, how the internet has changed everything else, like making music. You don't need a record label. You don't need, you can just put your music out into the world. Selling things If, if you don't have to go through a company, a huge corporate company to, get paid to advertise something, then that's just like a, a much better system for the creator and probably for the person trying to advertise their product.
[00:13:11] Alex: so you don't think people are being in your demographic of being in influenced by, let's call it old school or traditional advertising, mainstream advertising.
[00:13:19] Seb: I, I don't think so. Like with the car insurance thing, I was thinking about it, I was thinking about what would influence my decision to pick a car insurance. I would search what is the best car insurance, Reddit. I'm not thinking, oh my God, that Geico ad was great.
I'm
gonna
[00:13:32] Brian: you know them. You know the
[00:13:33] Seb: They're great. I mean, they are like,
I, I, I actually love them.
[00:13:36] Troy: I like the, I like that. Don't be like, don't act like your parents' ones. Those
[00:13:39] Brian: Yeah.
[00:13:40] Seb: Those ones are good too.
[00:13:41] Brian: You grew up with the cavemen. I mean, come
on. It's
[00:13:43] Seb: yeah, no, it's
it's great stuff.
[00:13:44] Alex: And, and it'll probably lead us to the AI conversation, but with a modicum of internet literacy, which right now the hack seems to be, Google plus the Reddit keyword, You find the best information which tv, which, whatever, which insurance.
And I think that it feels like where are you gonna make money in advertising after this? I mean, unless you're a platform or an influencer, like all the middles getting squeezed out, sorry.
[00:14:06] Brian: Hmm, that's depressing.
[00:14:07] Alex: Is
[00:14:09] Brian: gonna think about the ad
networks?
[00:14:10] Alex: But is it like, I, think Seb is saying,
[00:14:12] Troy: it's great. It's great what you're saying, but,
it's incredibly naive.
[00:14:16] Brian: Okay, so Troy, the ad networks are gonna live.
[00:14:18] Troy: I never said AdNet. Where, so I was just asking Che G p T, what
percentage of money is, is spend on television, advertis. according to, it's a little outta date, 2021 is the cutoff for chat u p T. It's 35%. I would've thought it was higher.
[00:14:30] Alex: But if there's also this long tail of you have to put advertising on TV because you're being kind of motivated by the ad agency and the media buyers to do it, not knowing Exactly, if it's performant or not, there's way better ways to spend your money,
[00:14:42] Troy: I'm a big NFL fan. What would happen to NFL without advertising? How would that work?
[00:14:47] Brian: Yeah. But live sports is, the exception to the rule, I mean, Seb, you watch sports, right? you see advertising during sports. You don't watch Walker, Texas Ranger or some like CBS show on Sunday nights at 9:00 PM
[00:14:59] Seb: , it seems like the system is there and it's making people money and it's hasn't completely broken yet, and that's like the only reason that people are still paying crazy amounts of money for advertising on tv. it seems impossible to test how effective it is, but I would guess that it's influencing people very little overall.
[00:15:16] Alex: and people
your age, because I think a lot of people in their sixties are buying my pillows because Tucker Carlson tells them to,
[00:15:23] Seb: Yeah, yeah. No, definitely.
[00:15:25] Alex: TV has such an outside, hold on, people's budgets and the influence as it has everybody keeps talking about Tuck Carlson. He, he gets 4 million viewers, that's less than most like top tos,
[00:15:37] Brian: Yeah. Different. You can't really compare the two, but
[00:15:39] Alex: but I get that we can compare it, but I think there's
this hole that TV has that's like long tail of it.
[00:15:44] Troy: in the demo primetime, c n n, the numbers are, shockingly small.
[00:15:49] Brian: yeah, yeah. No, I know, I know. They are small. It's just hard to con We, we went into modes and stuff. It's hard to compare a half hour of being irate about whatever is happening.
[00:15:58] Seb: You would have to compare to like popular TikTok, political commentators, which there probably aren't many getting quite
as or like there. The views are
[00:16:08] Brian: the impact of a a minute and a half TikTok is not the same as getting enraged for a half hour plus on
[00:16:15] Alex: I, I think it's the audience though. I wonder how much of it is just like these learned behaviors that, you see something like New York Times bestseller, and that person gets a lot of attention. Meanwhile, there's hundred newsletters doing better on, on CK than, that gets more readership and has probably more real life world influence than being a New York Times bestseller.
what we are seeing in, Sabba, I think is also a generation that's so. Much more literate TV doesn't have that same hold on them. We all grew up with TV being the thing, like being on TV was a big thing.
It no longer is, even five years ago, every YouTuber wanted a TV show, Every YouTuber wanted to be on Netflix, et cetera. Today, YouTubers are perfectly happy on YouTube or some of them are like, Mr. Beast doesn't want to be on n b nbc,
[00:16:57] Seb: and I think like the trust has just completely disintegrated. Like people don't really care about the authority of, of television and having a television show
[00:17:05] Alex: But is it maybe because being lied to you for 10 years and noticing that they're trying to sell you shit you don't want is actually not a
great
[00:17:14] Brian: happened 10
years ago?
[00:17:15] Alex: That That said, , your generation just doesn't think about all these ad executives and what they're gonna do with their summers when they can't go to cans anymore or fly across the world.
It's very
[00:17:26] Seb: no, there's, there's
not a lot of sympathy.
[00:17:28] Brian: Don't, worry. Can's gonna be fine this year.
[00:17:30] Alex: Yeah. Is that gonna be canned?
[00:17:31] Brian: the yachts will be there.
[00:17:32] Alex: I'm sure.
[00:17:33] Brian: Advertising always finds a way. I appreciate cuz it has so many flaws but you look at You can't get an Uber now. what do they do immediately? They put advertising in there.
[00:17:41] Alex: Does that stuff work though?
[00:17:43] Troy: Why not?
[00:17:43] Brian: yeah,
like it seeps into all of our subconscious.
We make decisions based on so many different signals and we don't understand even the full extent that
[00:17:53] Alex: guys, guys, guys? I don't know how long it's gonna take. I think
traditional
[00:17:57] Brian: the essential to making a prediction and particularly a
big prediction. Just don't put a time
[00:18:01] Alex: So, but it's happening quickly.
[00:18:02] Troy: I mean, Alex, Alex,
[00:18:04] Alex: Well, let
[00:18:04] Troy: it is.
Okay.
[00:18:07] Alex: Traditional
advertising, traditional middle man, middle person based advertising is entirely based on the fact that it's forcing, viewers, it's customers through some sort of linear thing where you have to wait and you get all these interruptions, or it's even Google's, it's like Google's entire model is we're gonna make the internet shitty.
So you have to look at five ads before you get to the thing. And I think what we're finding with things like TikTok and with things like whatever people are using today, including why this, chat, g p t has exploded. It's. Oh, I realize now that the new expectations I can get just shit instantly. I don't have to wait for your bullshit.
Nobody ever cared about ads, ads were at the time where you went to the bathroom or you went to the fridge, and now you no longer have to do that. And I think the tolerance for that is, has gone down to zero. And so there's all this middle of the pie that was filled with advertising agencies and, the people building those advertising platforms and the media buyers, that's gonna shrink way down, man.
Way down. It has to, nobody likes it.
[00:19:12] Brian: Eh,
[00:19:12] Troy: Alex, I think you're, I
I mean,
respectfully. Alex. Hey, it's my turn.
[00:19:16] Brian: were said,
[00:19:17] Troy: second.
[00:19:17] Alex: Do
you see what I have to deal with?
[00:19:19] Troy: you and SAB should do a splinter podcast called like Ad Haters or Busters or
something like that no one's gonna disagree with you that annoying advertising is something that we don't love and that we don't like, kind of frictionless experiences to get what we want.
And sort of the top sea turvy demand architecture of the internet doesn't make advertising much more complicated. but this is the fa some facts okay. Or facts assertions. For me, the advertising exists on a con, on a continuum from things that are very tightly connected to a transaction because they sit in a transaction flow, whether that's affiliate or retail advertising, or anytime you buy a link, when there's any amount of.
From the consumer, right? And that's the most high value stuff and it's played an outsized role and will continue to on the internet cuz the internet is a median that collapses attention and transactions together. And so it pushes all that together. And all of those kinds of businesses are doing really well on the very far other end.
Video doesn't give you a choice, it's not about intention, but it owns your timeline if you wanna watch something. So you either a block like Zeb does, or you're forced to watch a little bit of it. And the savvy people in that world have said, well, you're not gonna, there's nothing worse than a 32nd clip with a 32nd ad.
So YouTube smartly controls frequency and it serves you five second ads and it allows to be skippable, which I think is a decent compromise and it's become an extraordinary good business. Partly also because they don't have the same kind of content costs as as other media organizations. Then there's the vast middle and in that middle.
A lot of people are really struggling right now because essentially they're trying to bend your will to find intent, intent to get you interested in something when you're, when you're doing something else, when your mode is different or when they have really no data about what it is you want. I think at best it's advertising.
Like Brian puts in his newsletter, it works because it's conversational, because he's speaking to a vertical community of people interested in media and advertising. Brian, do you have any ad slots available this month?
Little plug, we're sold out this
month, but yeah, get, get in line and so that kind of stuff works.
just to get back to the business, okay. If someone's sitting in a company, they're like, we have a certain amount of industrial capacity, or we have certain aspirations for how much we want to grow our business, call up the marketing person and say, dude, we need to crank this thing up.
We're gonna invest a hundred million dollars to go buy some customers. Go do it. And that's the investment you make. And you say, it's gonna cost us $50 to get a customer. And hopefully over a period of three years, that customer will generate $75. Go do it. the way that you go do that might not be advertising on, television, on Thursday night television on nbc, but you're gonna find a way.
Advertising is the ultimate cockroach industry, and it will always be because it's intimately connected to business growth in a capitalist system. End of
[00:22:14] Brian: Oof. Wow.
[00:22:15] Alex: That's something. Oh God.
[00:22:18] Brian: Let's go get 'em. Advertising. Woohoo.
[00:22:22] Alex: Advertising is Unwant. .
[00:22:24] Brian: se Sep does not seem fired up. Gotta say
[00:22:30] Seb: I'm, I'm not super fired up.
I
[00:22:32] Brian: these the kind of inspirational speeches you had at the kitchen table
[00:22:35] Seb: Just all advertising, praise, advertising, advertising. I kind of got distracted halfway through, honestly. I, I, I
[00:22:43] Brian: That's why
you need a mid
[00:22:44] Seb: I I decided to look, I decided to look on my Instagram and see first of all how the frequency of ads, which is, it's actually disgusting. There's, I'm, I scrolled through five posts and two of the, in those five posts, I
saw two advertisements. The first one is for Tabula. I don't even know what this
is. I would spend
[00:23:04] Troy: I know, I know, I know that guy. I had
dinner with him last
week.
Seth
[00:23:08] Alex: Yeah.
[00:23:09] Brian: you know, there's ads on the bottom of webpages, like you can't believe what this celebrity looks like or the toe fungus.
[00:23:14] Alex: Yeah,
exactly. Hey, I know you're
[00:23:16] Troy: Oh, he likes those.
[00:23:17] Seb: But, but hold on, hold on. The next one was this one for this, this t-shirt. And there's nothing wrong with this T-shirt. This is a strip t-shirt. My dad
[00:23:25] Brian: Yeah,
[00:23:25] Seb: wear this
t-shirt, but the fact that
I see it coming from a sponsored I'm instantly just like I would never touch that.
I would never go
near that. I, I, it, there's like a visceral, like I see an advertisement. I'm not gonna buy that ever.
I don't know. I I can't
[00:23:39] Brian: I get it.
[00:23:40] Alex: There is.
[00:23:40] Brian: Clicking on ads is
not very punk rock. It's not at all
[00:23:43] Alex: advertising I is an unwanted untrusted friction, and technology will always butt heads with that and whoever comes up with technology that takes out that unwanted, unloved friction will benefit in the market. So you have these two forces. What you're saying, Troy, I think, is that Yeah, but advertising like cockroaches or toe fungus or whatever is unkillable.
It'll live with us forever. it's like the herpes of the internet. You can't get rid of it, so you might as well live with it. What we're gonna say. Yes. However, there's such an unstoppable force fighting it. Okay? The only thing you're not gonna make me do is say, yeah, I'm actually, I'm excited about, this blight on the internet.
I'm not, it is not something that people actually want to consume.
[00:24:26] Brian: Yeah, but it's a tax, right? So that's what it is. And nobody likes taxes, but we like roads, we like schools. the question is, how are you gonna, pay for the stuff you want? So that's what it ends up coming down to is you can either pay with your attention or your data in some cases, or you can pay with money Bitcoin or whatever.
but ultimately in a capitalist system, people are, not gonna create stuff unless, there's a financial incentive. I mean, sometimes they will, but we'll just have a lot of, U G C that could be the future.
[00:24:56] Alex: But I think that's until somebody comes in and comes with a new model that people are potentially ready to pay for. I don't know if chat g p t is, is that But at some point, the amount of times I see it, the value add on a piece of, media or media publication that is, if you give us five bucks, we'll stop showing.
Like ads are the punishment. And I think if there's enough of a critical mass of this stuff, it could, substantially change the business. The original sin of the internet was not to build subscription and these payments into it and rely entirely on advertising.
[00:25:23] Troy: are you in the ad tier of Netflix? Brian
[00:25:26] Brian: Now
[00:25:26] Troy: Seb. Would you pony up to get rid of ads on Netflix?
[00:25:29] Seb: yeah, you'd probably pay the extra couple dollars not at ads,
[00:25:31] Brian: Yeah.
[00:25:32] Alex: it all depends how much it is, right? At some point, there's a point that makes that worth it. And so if you're in a business that is just, there's so
[00:25:38] Troy: w Well, that's why I'm asking. I'm wondering if, if Netflix is 10 bucks a month and if 20 bucks gets you ad free, would you still pay the 20 bucks?
[00:25:46] Alex: I mean, I'm not the right person to ask
[00:25:48] Seb: this. I'm subscribed to every streamer and every, but what, Brian said you gotta pay for things somehow.
And I think like that's kind of the justification for advertising, but Do we need that justification anymore? if we're talking about you need to pay for an ability to create the content that you wanna see, I guess so, but really not so much anymore.
More and more people can make their content for very low cost and it can be very high quality content, so you actually don't really need the advertisers in that context.
[00:26:15] Brian: No, not for all kinds. something like succession obviously costs a lot of money to make it, but the tools of creation being, pretty cheap these days, you don't need advertising as much. I think the sort of car letter to that is there's so many places to put ads these days.
I mean, where you go to the airport and you, you put your shoes. If you don't have pre-check in the bin and there's an ad on there and there's ads everywhere. Every surface is covered with an ad, which is weirdly drives down the prices of ads cuz you can put 'em so many places. So people
have to put more ads and then more ads and then more ads.
[00:26:48] Alex: But I think we're also talking about ads like where people are more likely to engage and, buy something. that's the internet, when you're in that modality of you're browsing and you see an ad and you buy it, you do an impulse buy. I feel like some, a lot of change coming and I think it's generational.
I think we're still kind of a little bit enamored with this idea of TV and high production values, and I think that's kind of going away. know, stuff needed to look expensive, stuff needed to be a certain length in our
[00:27:14] Brian: Oh yeah. Well, because it
doesn't drive performance, I mean, the internet is a direct response medium. There's basically like two forms of advertising, build an image. So later you're like, oh, car insurance, Geico. I don't think, oh, those lizards told me something. But I think if I'm looking down a list, I'm like, oh, Geico, because you've seen those
ads and then there's the like, oh, I'm gonna click and buy this sh*t right now, kind of ads, most of the internet. I don't think it had to be that way, but that's how, if you talk about the original sins of the internet when it comes to advertising, that was probably, to me, that was it. Like separating the actual media impression from the data that made it a direct response medium to begin with.
And so everything just became, how do you get a click on, on an ad? and I think that's the kind of ads that are generally lower quality in many cases. and it also takes away that high gloss storytelling stuff that advertising had always been synonymous with.
[00:28:07] Troy: can we just jump ahead to the future for a second
[00:28:09] Troy: this is interesting to me. So I had this discussion yesterday. it's unclear to me whether the open AI guys are trying to create a consumer product or not. No. I know we had a brief discussion about this in our, in our thread if they are, I mean, they stumbled onto huge consumer demand. I don't know if people said it was a hundred million people that tried chat tbt. How many people continue to use at TB D? and now what they've done is they've created a toll booth there. It's $20 a month to get reliable service from them.
And it looks like their intention is to turn that into a consumer application. Now what they've done is they've started to say, basically, instead of taking our API and using AI on your service or in your workflow, in your application, whatever, come and bring your site to our ai.
And that's the plugin structure,
So now you plug in Expedia. Into chat, G P T, and instead of it telling you that it has no data post 2021, and there's all these data sets that it doesn't address, I can now book a flight or get up to date information on all that stuff.
Now, here's why I say this.
Suddenly they become the world's most important next generation gatekeeper. Every, every company on the planet wants to get their plugin on chat. G B T, just like every company wants to get their app in the app store, Just like every company wants to be at the top of the search engines and results page now, suddenly you have a problem, your chat, G P T, and you need a system to regulate the
demand from companies that want to get inside of your chatbot
[00:29:45] Brian: wonder, all roads lead to the ad network.
[00:29:47] Troy: or they lead to some type of tiered advertising program that you bid to
[00:29:52] Alex: why? Why do you have to inject advertising?
[00:29:54] Troy: It's not advertising, Alex. It's just
oh, I want a travel plug in. Here's
[00:29:58] Brian: my God. The, the first rule of starting a new lake ad unit is claim. It's not advertising.
[00:30:03] Alex: it's all gonna be, essentially like targeting and retargeting of a specific product within its natural flow. So you do a search on the app store and some you search for Airbnb and Expedia pops up there,
that. Okay. I agree. That is a hundred percent advertising. But
[00:30:17] Troy: Do you like that
[00:30:18] Alex: p T is, well, it's in marketplace advertising, it's the type of advertising Amazon does, It's the type of advertising that I get once I go into the grocery store and Safeway has a special deal on some, but
wipes
like,
[00:30:29] Brian: retail media is at the end
[00:30:31] Alex: it's retail media.
It's not, it's, it's retail media is not gonna feed the engine of advertising and ad agencies, right? Because it's going to. First of all, just to get to the chat, G p T thing, it is a consumer product. I don't know if they wanted it to be, it is a consumer product. It might even be the fastest growing consumer product in the world with a hundred million users.
And I think that the Pluggin thing is there, apple announcing the app store moment, and it will be a ton of money to be made just on affiliate, links and, taking a slice of the conversion there. it's going to be really interesting to see how that develops.
and also interestingly, they haven't been, really quick to try to get on the app store and get another gatekeeper involved. They, they just want to kind of
[00:31:11] Troy: That's the best part about it is it exists on the open web.
[00:31:14] Alex: the web is, is potentially back with us. And I think that marketplace advertising is kind of going to direct advertising via influencer and market marketplace Advertising is the stuff that looks like it's not going anywhere.
But the, advertising,industry, is going to fundamentally change. Where does that make, there's not, as big a pie to slice between all the middlemen and his giant companies that were made, made off that, and I, it doesn't sound like there's a ton of space for these folks chat.
G p T doesn't help because I think Sam Altman is also pretty intent on trying to build a business that doesn't repeat the original scene of the internet, which is give everything away to advertising and see, hey, if we build this from the beginning with subscription in mind, how does that work and what is the value that people can get from it?
people used to buy cheap phones until the iPhone made it.
[00:31:59] Brian: but also, I mean, there's, there's no obvious, just to bring it back to formats, there's no obvious ad format for this kind of AI chat interface. to me, like the, of the many sins
of the internet
skins
sins,
of the internet is really never really developing like a great ad format,
[00:32:18] Troy: Alex and I developed a great ad format.
[00:32:20] Brian: okay, Well,
I wanna talk about that.
so search advertising was a great format cuz it, it worked within the flow, within the mode. And at least in its early, its early iteration, it was, you could make an argument that it was nearly additive to the experience or at least a reason. Tax. the Banner Act utterly failed.
It was a complete disaster. there were so many attempts to try to make it like magazines where I kept hearing about Vogue and how people bought Vogue as much for the advertisements as they did for the editorial content
and
[00:32:51] Troy: old landlord invented it.
[00:32:52] Brian: invented Vogue.
[00:32:53] Troy: No. The banner at
[00:32:54] Brian: Oh, the banner.
[00:32:55] Troy: mm-hmm.
[00:32:55] Brian: Oh, wait, who is this?
[00:32:57] Troy: Jonathan Nelson.
[00:32:58] Brian: Oh, Jonathan. I know Jonathan.
[00:33:00] Troy: the first banner. SAB knows Jonathan.
[00:33:01] Brian: I once wrote a, oral history of the banner ad, and 20 different people claim to have invented this thing that nobody likes. So, I don't know. I guess
[00:33:09] Alex: It's wild. I, I mean, Troy and I probably invented a lot of things that. make people miserable today. And I never try to claim ,that.
[00:33:16] Brian: Well cuz like I think
ad formats are actually more interesting than like media formats because you get into trade offs that's where the interesting stuff takes place because you can talk about theory and all oh, what is best for the consumer and sitting around the campfire and whatnot.
But when you start to get into business context and you start to make trade offs, that's where it gets really interesting.
[00:33:35] Troy: We tried every possible way to layer, some type of experience, expandable experience on top of a video player. I remember heading down to YouTube in the peninsula in San Francisco saying we should all do the same format and put this banner on the bottom of a video ad.
[00:33:51] Alex: and then people like me were tricked into doing this because it was an interesting, there was two things that was driving us, I mean, trick. Nobody tricked me.
[00:33:58] Brian: I think you're a victim.
[00:33:59] Alex: the technical challenge of getting it to work. It was so exciting to get these things to work. And then this idea that we were going to save publishing,
[00:34:05] Troy: Sorry, Alex. Yeah, it's
like the small business argument. the other one we did is we did a lot of work with expanding on the pages, and then we did in Feed, someone was telling me last night that the, that teeds has become like a really, profitable company,
[00:34:19] Brian: Teeds, yes.
[00:34:20] Troy: Yeah. Makes a huge amount of money.
[00:34:22] Brian: Yeah. And
they're going into CTV and, and all
[00:34:24] Troy: Teeds is in, what do they call it, inline video formats.
[00:34:28] Brian: like, yeah, they pioneered, basically bringing like TV commercials to webpages,
[00:34:32] Alex: Great. I love those. I think it's so nice when you use the. You know what? Advertising like this is good for. It's good for advertising. Why downloading the app from the app store and not using the website is a good idea. that's the one thing that this type of advertising is really good at is say, Hey, look how fuck this thing is.
[00:34:49] Brian: but again, that it goes back to the failure to come up with a good format for brand building. Leave aside the dr stuff with Dr. Direct response. you can just do a search listing. It's basically glorified. it's just all about the targeting it's basically just a Yellow Pages listing that you're putting on a website
where, if you're talking about Google, if you're talking about retail media, if you're talking about Facebook, even they're glorified listings products as far as I'm concerned.
The problem is like when you want to build a brand you go to a magazine and you flip through magazines, this is what they were built on. You turn on TV and if you're not getting Netflix, you're not, they're trying to tell stories. The internet never was able to do that.
They never came up with good ad formats to me. Isn't that the problem you guys were trying to solve?
[00:35:31] Alex: Yeah. Yes. I mean, I would love to hear what Troy has to say about that, except sign.
[00:35:35] Troy: no, no, no, no. I mean, the genesis of the whole thing was we. A video platform that existed on other people's sites. the number one partner at the time was bbo and there was a
gentleman at BBO that said, we'll use your video player, but there's no way that you're running pre-roll in front of any of the content that is uploaded by our community.
[00:35:56] Brian: you will not sell a bebo with your advertising. I, I like that
[00:35:59] Troy: and we had at the time actually hosting videos on AMA was extremely expensive. So our money of our well-funded startup was burning very quickly and we had no mechanism to make any of it back. So I went to the guy at BBO and I said, we need a compromise. I need to find an ad product that can work if you're, morally against running pre-roll on U G C.
So we had two challenges. One was that the world hated U G C and thought they'd never advertised on it at the time. And the second was we needed an alternative to pre-roll. And then what happened is we created this thing called the ticker that you could expand and that would, start on the video and could become a full-fledged sort of video experience.
And we had to go out and start evangelizing that as a better way to advertise the breakthrough moment. Alex you remember some of those t-shirts and stuff we made, it was pre-roll. What did we do? We crossed out the, I remember we did one actually that was, you did it actually.
It was brilliant. We had CPM illustrated, on an ad unit, and a little bird walked up and turned the M on its side and it became c p E and we called it, remember Brian? Cost
[00:37:03] Brian: I do. Yeah.
[00:37:04] Troy: And we
started
selling.
[00:37:06] Brian: ad
[00:37:06] Troy: Yeah, cost per engagement. Alex is the architect of a lot of that. cost engagement, U G c, video advertising, all that stuff.
It worked extremely well. And then we made a huge mistake and we bought a big stupid company that basically stopped us in our tracks for two years.
We
[00:37:22] Alex: That was my company, was it?
Oh,
that's, no, the, other one.
[00:37:25] Brian: the Typepad thing.
[00:37:26] Troy: Typepad.
No, No, no. You're, you guys were an accelerant. Alex was a
bad idea.
[00:37:32] Brian: Well, that's the
platform dreams.
[00:37:33] Alex: what, but the issue, I think that it was, is that we were always talking about this idea that the best format is going to be one that feels native. And everybody was really uncomfortable with that because advertisers hated U G C.
People making content, didn't want the ads before, editorial teams
[00:37:49] Troy: the the whole transactional the transactional side of the internet was not nearly as well developed
[00:37:54] Brian: Yeah,
[00:37:54] Troy: things like a link and affiliate
[00:37:56] Brian: well you
couldn't pay for
shit like very easily and, and still people didn't really trust.
buts, this is exactly what we're talking about. Everyone wants to make advertising that that looks, because you, you trust more the regular stuff on the internet, whether it's a Reddit post or everything. So what the advertisers end up thinking is oh shit, how do we make our advertising look less like advertising and more like the kinds of stuff that Seb and his friends actually want to engage with.
[00:38:20] Alex: I think it's that state of mind actually, Brian, that gets advertised as in trouble. It's like because they're saying like, we need to kind of sneak our way in. the way they expect is we're gonna wear these masks and kind of make our way into the party,
And maybe nobody's gonna notice that we're advertising. And I think that's what like creates this uncomfortable tension rather than the fact that, we need to admit that there needs to be native ways to put your stuff into the feed and feel like you deserve your spot.
[00:38:50] Troy: You
mean like native ad units that existed in 300 by two 50 real estate on the page that were just reformatting the ad unit to make it look like it was native?
[00:39:00] Alex: Hmm. I mean, more like,
[00:39:01] Troy: No, I mean that was, that was part of the hilarity of, of, or the
irony of the whole native thing. But Alex,
I now remember what the
[00:39:07] Brian: When native programmatic, when native programmatic came down the
[00:39:11] Troy: Yeah, yeah.
I think it said pre, pre
prehistoric role. That was a good one.
[00:39:18] Alex: but, but here's the, here's the reason why advertising should, or advertisers should, want to be native and truly native. That means, like content created by the people who make content on those platforms is that those platforms are hugely optimized to make that the best experience that you have is the native experience.
The advertising experience is always secondary, So the reason TikTok works is that the TikTok ads are just tos,
[00:39:39] Brian: Uh,
honestly, I've heard this so many times with every single platform. The promoted tweets were the tweets. You couldn't, put an ad in there. You just need to promote a tweet and stuff like this Facebook post, they're not ads, they're promoted posts. These are native to the fa.
Everything becomes a standardized ad unit. It's just that's the only way you. And that's why with internet advertising, these have hundreds of ad units and then they came up with six, the banner ads at 300 by two 50 and stuff. All the things that people ended up ignoring. and standardization ends up just doing that because if you're gonna optimize the scale, you're gonna end up losing the uniqueness and you're gonna lose a lot of the impact to me.
you gotta choose pick one.
[00:40:21] Alex: The idea of an ad format is dying. there's content that you will put within whatever Modality that you're kind of inserting yourself into that can be advertising, but I don't see the existence of anything like an app format, that is
meaningful.
I,
[00:40:35] Brian: ad format?
[00:40:36] Alex: yes, absolutely. I think the only app formats are gonna work is I open the app store and I do a search for something, and the top thing on search looks nearly identical to the rest, except it says the context of this result is that it's sponsored. I go into, TikTok or Instagram reels or whatever, and I scroll through it, and one of those videos feels like an is an ad.
It's kind of, it's marked as an ad, but it's there. there's no world where I can see, Hey, here's this interruption. Now it's a different modality, it's a different thing. Now's the time to kind of break away from it. That's gone.
[00:41:08] Brian: Yeah,
[00:41:08] Alex: Amazon putting ads in their store,
[00:41:10] Brian: I think you're
probably right cuz I think it's kind of a shame in some ways. if you go back to that time when you were doing, what did you used to call this? Like your little unit. used to call it a pop-up. What was it?
[00:41:19] Troy: It wasn't a papa, it was an expando
[00:41:21] Brian: Okay. Okay. Thanks. Expando, the popup
[00:41:23] Alex: Next Spano
[00:41:24] Brian: but there was a lot of ad format innovation back then. Nebo was trying things like he had photo bucket out there. Vibrant media was turning like
hyperlinks into ads. there was a shit ton of things, most of which, sabba would make your skin crawl.
There were actually, and your dad was at the forefront of this. I should feel very proud, making just about everything into an ad unit.
[00:41:48] Alex: This used to be a forest until your dad turned it into a parking lot.
[00:41:52] Brian: it took vision. It, the ad network people see something and they just say ads. I can put an ad there,
[00:41:57] Troy: I just want to maybe set the record straight. at the same time, I was a big advocate for, content creators. I love media and I tried to find the right balance between. the content that was being created in the way we were paying for it,
[00:42:10] Brian: I know, I I joke, I think it is interesting because you have to make trade offs, and that's
[00:42:16] Alex: Yeah.
Yeah.
interesting. To be fair, I do think Troy really believed as, did we all that we needed to do this for publishing to thrive on the internet. And a lot of it came from passion for magazine and old school publishing
we spent a lot of time discussing ad formats and trying to make them engaging And you, believe in it, for, for, for the time that you're working on it. I think that, with this hindsight I have now, if we had a, as an industry, spend as much time thinking through what other business models could be built into the stack, then trying to figure out fucking banner size it 7 28 by fucking 90 and 300 by, I think we would be potentially living in a different world.
And the problem with the current, advertising proliferation across the internet is everything's become shit to use. I think people wouldn't care as
much if it didn't
[00:43:01] Troy: but but don't
dismiss that. The transactional evolution makes changes the game, Alex, and none of that existed before.
So it's really easy to say, Sam Altman can create a $20 subscription to chat g p T, which will really take a lot of pressure off of finding an ad model. And it's true, it will. But those th that, that whole thinking didn't exist back then.
Not only, it was just hard to put your credit card in,
you
[00:43:29] Alex: Yeah. No, it was I think because of the internet was designed as this free platform,
[00:43:34] Troy: I mean, the reality check for you guys, I get what step's saying anybody can make content now, but here's the thing, one of the plugins that they showed off when they did the demo, it's, if anybody wants to see it, it's on the open AI plugin page is a thing that will go out and fetch an article from Vanity Fair, bring it back into the chat window, summarize it and present it to you, which seems like good utility.
It completely undermines the whole model, and there's massive carnage in that process, okay? There's massive, massive carnage of people that today are paid to make content in a professional capacity. it's a moment, it's a real existential moment.
And so Yeah.
we still have surface area. I mean, here's what, the format for ai, the format for is there's no more pixels to put ads everywhere.
It's gotta be a link. It's gotta be transactional. The people that will do really well, putting things into the chat interface are people that have something to sell. They have a database of skews or a service that you can buy immediately if Expedia would love to put their product in there because you still have to buy from them.
So that makes a ton of sense. But if you need to present advertising next to a piece of content to try to influence someone in some shape or form and you don't have immediate intent, you have a big problem. And there's a lot of people that we all know and love that will be massively affected by that.
As content creators, they will.
[00:45:02] Alex: yeah, I don't wanna be flippant about it. I'm not,
celebrating, but I think you're right. I think that's a good call out. the thing that's going to be interesting is are these companies like Expedia going to be willing to kind of forego the control of owning the user?
Experie. because of the way they might want to do things,
[00:45:18] Troy: You know what, the
more I that, that's a good question. So basically when you, my line on that was as soon as you take the plugin the form of your brand in terms of an experience disappears, you just become, your API gets plugged into their chat machine and, that makes sense, Alex? I was at first thinking I bought the membership this week, the $20 thing.
So basically what it means is chat works all the time for me. I don't get these system errors where I can't get on I think it's, as soon as people start to use it, they're not gonna stop. It's unbelievable. It really is. I'm going to London in a week. I typed in a bunch of questions about, things for, my family to do when we're there and we're then it's just extremely useful.
And the more that, the more current the data and the more it's connected to downstream transactional stuff, it's just fast. There's zero friction. As soon as people get exposed to it, it's gonna, it's gonna, completely change behaviors yeah, we need a new model here guys, but the one that I'm seeing doesn't support, the kind of media entities that I spent my most of my life working on.
[00:46:23] Alex: maybe the warning here is, being folks that are insiders and have been involved in this from all sides for a long time is shit's about to change real fast. We've never seen a technology take on this many use cases so quickly new user behavior is becoming the norm that will make stuff very rapidly look,antiquated.
I don't know about you, but using things like Siri or, or even Google Assistant is by the hour feeling more and more a cake to the point where it feels painful to use. compared to three months ago, putting stuff into a search box and learning united dot com's fucking search interface to figure out a flight feels antiquated.
That's happened in two months.
[00:47:04] Brian: tweets about this
[00:47:05] Alex: it's it, once the user expectation, once the expectation is such that I do no longer want this
[00:47:12] Troy: Really you go, you went to Twitter to complain about United?
[00:47:15] Brian: he didn't do like
[00:47:16] Troy: Lord.
[00:47:17] Brian: you know I have a podcast.
[00:47:19] Alex: man
[00:47:19] Troy: Stop it.
[00:47:20] Alex: anyway.
[00:47:20] Troy: What else do you got? We'll, let sep go in a sec. One more question for
Seba. Thank you for being so patient.
[00:47:25] Alex: but maybe like a message to anybody that's in advertising, like,
[00:47:28] Brian: You're doomed.
[00:47:30] Alex: well, no, but it's like this is running on fumes at this stage. I.
[00:47:33] Brian: Oh God. don't like to
[00:47:35] Alex: No, I mean the traditional models are running on fumes, you can plot a line and say the importance of interface, the middleman of the interface, the middleman of these networks. is gonna get squeezed as people get basically direct pipe into the API of the thing and get the answers they want.
And then gets to book through a system that's centralized. Now, I don't know if chat G P T wins because honestly I still think that Apple and Google control the devices and therefore control access to this. And if they want to say, you gonna use our Apple G P T and our Google G P T and whatever they are, they will win.
Whoever wins it doesn't matter. the amount of layers of abstractions between us and the data are going to be removed and there's less space for advertising to be slaughtered. In. In the beginning of the internet, there was a lot of room and there's less than less room.
So if you're not a platform or a marketplace that controls your own data commerce, or if you're not an influencer, then you gotta be really thinking about what the next five
[00:48:28] Brian: Yeah. it's the ultimate flattening of everything and that every, every brand and every person becomes a plugin. that's where this has always been going, I feel like. But this is just the, a complete accelerant of that.
Like when we talk about Expedia and like the role of like brands in this kind of world, all of the advantages that have been eroded are now just gonna be completely taken away from you. Like your, your Vanity Fair, example. And I think that is gonna be really, really difficult for, I mean, these are challenges that have existed already.
the ways to, to stand out and also the leverage you have as brands have always has been a decline for generation. But this is gonna accelerate that. No.
[00:49:08] Alex: Yeah. Well, we've got the point of view of the next generation and how they're using media. the technology that's changing,
[00:49:15] Troy: Sep, do you have any, sep do you have any final observations? It's actually great to have you on here, by the way. You're really a smart young person.
[00:49:22] Seb: I mean, my, my thing that I was just thinking about is it, it just seems like there's going to be, like, it just really is just gonna be a bloodbath of, of change, like any other huge change and things will die that are not useful. I think trying to hold onto them because they have provided people with a livelihood in the past is like an honorable thing, but also just doesn't seem like that's gonna be the way that the, the world.
[00:49:44] Brian: Yeah,
you
[00:49:45] Troy: a title for the episode. Brian
[00:49:47] Brian: So I, Sam I think that's a great point cuz like I started covering this stuff right when the internet was like starting to take off and there was always these things that I would always hear about people wanting to hold on to the till the end of their careers. And I was like, this is stupid.
I was like, how what? That's, it is inevitable that the internet is gonna take over all these businesses, but what I realized is they really could hold on for a long time and maybe it is different this time, but I think it's like everything repeats itself and you have a bunch of people who have amassed a certain amount of money but also power and stuff like this.
And they're gonna hold on, they're gonna do whatever they want they need to do to hold on. So I'm interested to see just the speed of the sort of revolution and I always think it's gonna be slower than we end up thinking.
[00:50:31] Seb: Yeah.
I mean, we will see. One more thing is that we've, people have mentioned Expedia a few. During this, podcast, and I, and I have
to say, like I was thinking about when I've booked flights, I use Google Flights every
[00:50:43] Brian: Yes. How do I,
[00:50:44] Seb: So it's yeah, it's just
The homogenization of where you get these things from.
[00:50:48] Brian: although I sometimes go to kayak,
[00:50:49] Alex: The reason I use Expedia is because, at Airbnb, they were, were often butting heads, I think,
[00:50:55] Troy: I like Google flights too. I, I agree with you, Seth, but at some point you get passed onto a booking engine, and the nice thing is, is that that Expedia connects your data to the booking engine.
[00:51:06] Brian: Yeah. Or if you get into like ere, don't go for ere. You get to, you see some sort of Too good to be true, fair.
[00:51:13] Seb: That happened to my mom.
[00:51:14] Brian: You end up on
[00:51:15] Alex: No,
[00:51:16] Brian: ere. You don't want to be there.
[00:51:17] Alex: look, if you're not flying private, you're not doing it right. So,
you know, that's all I'm gonna
say.
[00:51:21] Seb: of
course.
[00:51:22] Brian: is another like red flag.
[00:51:24] Alex: that is a joke.
I'm gonna head out, but that was a great conversation.
[00:51:27] Troy: Thanks,
[00:51:27] Brian: Thank you,
[00:51:28] Alex: thinking about private flights, we should move to our good product.
[00:51:31] Brian: Okay, but before we get to good product, I want to ask, we'll just go around, about a favorite ad format. Doesn't have to be digital. It could be non-digital. Even better. why don't you start?
[00:51:40] Alex: I think the logo on the sports t-shirt for me, like soccer team is really interesting because it kind of stays with the team for at least a season. And there's always a big story about the reveal of the logo and like premiership, soccer, football. and I remember at one point, Barcelona chose unicef, which was a pretty neat thing to put on there.
but most of the time it ends up being some sort of airline from a, petrol state. where, or, or some Russian oligarchs. I think it's a powerful statement because it's an affiliation to the team. and I think it can have, still a lot of power and it can be told well,
[00:52:14] Brian: Okay, Troy?
[00:52:15] Troy: It's hard to say format, it's because you start thinking about which advertising you like, and it often has to do with who's making
the ad. But I'd have to say, in line with what Alex had said earlier, assuming a marketplace manages the bidding in to get preferred position in a feed, assuming that's managed well and it's a good marketplace, sometimes it's actually an effective signal to figure out who's, has a, a better or higher quality service, or certainly has more economics in their business to afford to bid up to the top.
And so I don't mind that type of advertising. And often it's, not inconvenient. So that's, I guess, a type of, retail advertising or even a kind of affiliate advertising in a marketplace. I think it's effective and it's, it's not getting in my way.
[00:53:00] Brian: I actually like magazine ads. I
think full page magazine ads were a great
format because
[00:53:05] Troy: In certain, categories
[00:53:06] Brian: in certain categories obviously, but not blow in, not the blow in carts. Those were the worst formats
of
advertising
[00:53:12] Alex: the amount of times that I received a PDF or, or some sort of illustrative file of a magazine ad and then somebody says, well, now put this into a 7 28 by 90 lead board matter.
[00:53:22] Brian: Yeah, there you go.
[00:53:25] Alex: Oh my God, you always felt like you were desecrating something, something beautiful, when you were
doing.
[00:53:31] Brian: last summer I was, I was in Porto and Portugal and I went to some sort of like thrift store or something, and they had these old popular mechanics from Brazil in like the 1950s and 1960s, like classic time of advertising. And also like Brazil was like exploding at the time with a middle class and stuff.
And the advertising in there, it was true like storytelling and there was entire. , cartoon stories, that were being told. I have some of these photos, I'll send them to you guys. that kind of advertising is, as the internet particularly has gone into a purely transactional, way, is is kind of gone to some degree.
And I think it, like w it's too bad, because I think that everything being impulse, impulse, impulse, it's just like it leads to like worse products. a lot of times people are, particularly like dtc, like what are the enduring products that have come out of dtc, like most of the products are inferior and most of 'em are crap.
it's all just marketing and just being good at
[00:54:27] Alex: wait, don't we want a Casper
[00:54:28] Troy: not, that's not entirely
true.
[00:54:30] Alex: play?
[00:54:31] Troy: I,
[00:54:31] Brian: are you think so what are like the enduring like great products to come out of? Like
[00:54:36] Troy: I mean, I think that something like Brooklyn and is a good product. I think that.
[00:54:41] Brian: Um, they're, well, they're not, sheets are useful, right? There's a, so that sock company I like. I have Bombas,
[00:54:48] Troy: I think they're good. There's an underwear company I like,
There's a lot of packaged goods brands Fly by Jing, a good brand. I like their, their, chili Crisp Oil. It's all DTC
brand. There's lots
[00:54:58] Alex: Do, don't you think that there's also a lot of, maybe, I mean, would you
consider,
[00:55:03] Troy: s a nice little
[00:55:04] Alex: would you consider some of digital only,brands as, as deep TTC brands? I mean, a lot of those things like, The drop boxes and the notions and of the world have built, pretty substantial businesses going direct to consumer, right?
They're not advertising in traditional ways.
[00:55:19] Brian: Yeah, I I guess like digital products,
[00:55:21] Troy: magazine thing.
[00:55:22] Brian: know, like Dropbox, I, can't get that excited
[00:55:24] Troy: There's three things that make that advertising work. One is it's completely controlled by the consumer in a magazine. Second of all, it's generally the best ones had a contextual, alignment that made it good. And the ones that had a big enough marketplace, meant that the people creating the ads were heavily incentive to make good ads for that medium.
So, the fashion industry's the obvious example. And, any of the, the fashion brands would spend a huge amount of time creating imagery for those magazines. So I think that's a great example. Sadly, it's it's under extreme.
[00:55:58] Brian: Yeah, it's very craft driven. It was very context driven. and none of those things have seem seemingly come to pass. on the internet. Nothing against, search listings or retail media. And I like those Instacart placements when I'm searching for like Saran wrap, but I don't think it really holds a candle to what sort of, and maybe this is just nostalgia, I don't know.
But I think like when you look at the failings of the internet, to me that's like top of the list. The fact that there's nowhere to even execute on those kinds of ads. Do you remember when like Tim Armstrong was gonna remake the banner ad with Project Devil? I was
[00:56:30] Troy: Mm-hmm. .Mm-hmm.
[00:56:32] Brian: Do you remember that?
That
[00:56:33] Troy: Yeah. It was an attempt to bring it back to the sort of magazine like Glory.
[00:56:37] Brian: Yeah. But add in widgets,
[00:56:38] Troy: Campaign.
[00:56:39] Brian: stuff like
that. Clean campaign. Yeah.
[00:56:41] Troy: Mm-hmm.
[00:56:42] Alex: Those days are.
[00:56:43] Brian: All right, let's get on The Good Product. I wanna talk about the Good product.
[00:56:46] Troy: Alex and I used to
make a magazine about a, just to advertise our shit. The same magazine.
It
was cool.
[00:56:52] Brian: if I remember the same magazine I remember the week of. Then those were.
[00:56:55] Troy: I used to make those. Yeah.
[00:56:57] Brian: All right. Let's talk about good product.
[00:56:58] Good product
[00:57:01] Brian: I, I wanna talk about succession as a good product. I think it's
a good media product.
[00:57:05] Troy: were some good lines last night on Brian
[00:57:06] Brian: Yeah.
[00:57:07] Troy: writing in that show. What about that
one? Like, yeah. But when they were talking about their media concept, it was kind of good for this,
[00:57:14] Brian: Yeah.
[00:57:16] Troy: the hundred
[00:57:16] Brian: the Economist
meets like the
[00:57:18] Alex: New York Times.
[00:57:19] Troy: No Meets Masterclass.
Yeah,
[00:57:21] Alex: right.
[00:57:21] Brian: Manhattan Masterclass.
[00:57:22] Troy: Yeah.
yeah. And it was also, the other part was like, I think there was a line that said something like, like a members club, but for everyone
[00:57:31] Alex: Yeah, like clickbait, but for smart people was another one.
[00:57:34] Troy: Yeah,
yeah, yeah. There was another one that said, has the ethos of a nonprofit, but the path to crazy margins.
[00:57:41] Alex: I mean, you know that that stuff's probably being said in the room. Yeah.
[00:57:46] Brian: Well, so that, that, that's what I loved about it in that it really encapsulated, the bullshit of a lot of particular like media startups yeah, this was sort of a nod to se four or something else, with them talking about the English, language, English speaking population.
what I thought was particularly striking for this conversation, maybe just my own viewpoints, is how Shiv in particular started them down the line was just like, oh my God, this is so freaking small. I think that is sort of to me like a big takeaway of like, where we are now.
And that just like Mad Men mad Men was done in 2007 when the party was basically over for the advertising industry. This is being done now when the party is pretty much over for the media industry. And so you have to go backwards, where literally the Mad men went, had to go backwards to 1960.
They couldn't set it in modern times, but what's going on in succession to me is almost backwards, right? think about all the quote unquote digital media stuff that they've been like dealing with on the show. Vaulter,Buzzfeed nonsense. And then what is the, the, the,
streaming service go Joe,
just another like shitty streaming service,
[00:58:51] Troy: but their
market cap is more than ours. My, I think that there was a line in there. I don't know, I, I, you, you had to listen carefully to catch it, but it was like, find them a journalist to burn with
cigarettes. Did you
[00:59:02] Alex: Saudis or something that
[00:59:03] Brian: I messed that.
[00:59:04] Alex: but like they're talking about building this new thing, I think the only one seemingly into it, I guess he said it like, was Roman and stuff, and like Shiv was like, this is so ridiculous. This is so boring and small. And then Kendall is like, yeah, let's, and they'd cast it aside, ah, forget it.
[00:59:20] Brian: Let's get on the, let's do the
[00:59:21] Alex: Is, isn't this also what happens at kind of the end, the end of the line for some of these big industries where everything that they should be doing is too small for them so they don't do the smaller things and they keep doing the big thing that ends up, dying out?
[00:59:35] Troy: That's almost always the problem in big companies when you try to start something new. ,
it's hard to fathom something new. Becoming big enough to matter in the p and
[00:59:43] Alex: Yeah. I mean, apple has that issue, right? If it's not a, a billion dollar business, does it? Well, and Google has the same issue. and, and we have the same issue in tech for sure, but in media it seems to also be because the cost structures, so crazy. in a lot of these big media companies, they can't, see outside of it
[00:59:59] Troy: it reminds me of the moment in succession when Roman tries to explain how big 500 million is
[01:00:08] Alex:
[01:00:08] Troy: It's a thousand thousands times
[01:00:10] Alex: oh, you know what, there, there are two moments in that episode that kind of gave me chills. One was that where they're doing the negotiation and people are just dropping an extra 500 million being close to that in tech, these things are happening where people are just saying, well just give them another 10.
And you're like, that's $10 million. I could run a company for two years with that. That does a lot of stuff, and the other one was right at the beginning, there's this logo review, and I think the entire design community on Twitter was having some form of ptsd, of having somebody across a Zoom that just saying, this is shit, and you all have to smile.
Terrible feedback from people who don't know any better. it was a, a lot of anxiety watching this for me,
[01:00:49] Troy: I liked that their format, Brian, was high calorie info snacks,
[01:00:56] Alex: and do you think we laugh here, but don't you think that's how most people, might listen to us, that aren't in the edia industry, kind of respond to some of the things we say in, in our fields.
[01:01:07] Brian: They sound like us. They do. I mean, I just think it did a good job of, of capturing a lot of the
[01:01:12] Alex: Yeah.
[01:01:12] Brian: so I
[01:01:13] Troy: and Greg Greg is so magical.
[01:01:15] Alex: Greg remains magical. It's a very good,
[01:01:18] Brian: All right. Should we leave it there?
[01:01:19] Outro
[01:01:19] Alex: Yes. All right.
[01:01:20] Brian: right. Thanks much for listening. again, reminder, do send in your feedback.
My email is brian@rebooting.com and leave us a rating and review.
[01:01:27] Troy: thanks to
Seb.
Oh, hold on.Seb just sent me a text. Maybe a good way to end the episode advertising seems to be most effective on children and old people,
we're good. I think we got through this. It was a good experiment.
[01:01:40] Brian: yeah, we.
All right. thank you for congratulating me on getting to 5,000. Oh, I'm sorry. Congrats. The first 5,000 are the hardest after this is it's gravy.
[01:01:50] Troy: see you on Wednesday, Alex,
All right. See you later.
[01:01:52] Alex: Bye.
[01:01:53] Brian: see it. 


PVA S1E30
PVA S1E30
[00:00:00] Alex: Hello.
[00:00:01] Troy: Hi. I just got nervous.
[00:00:02] Brian: do you think that's gonna be permanent with musical artists not retiring?
[00:00:05] Alex: What do you mean
[00:00:06] Troy: You mean like Paul McCartney?
[00:00:07] Alex: Or?
Yeah, I mean, are we gonna have an 80 year old lady Gaga? Why would you retire? If people are still listening to
[00:00:13] Troy: music, dude.
[00:00:14] Alex: Yeah, it's
[00:00:14] Troy: Yeah, I love
[00:00:15] Alex: Like you want to do that forever.
some people definitely outstay their welcome, but you know, some made music like Johnny Cash right till the end.
[00:00:22] Brian: Yeah,
[00:00:23] Alex: albums was one of his last albums.
[00:00:25] Brian: I used to think naively that I would be so pissed if I a music star, and I had to play the same song again and again and again. But then I realized, every time they play that song, they're like, oh my God, this thing has made me so much freaking money. I love this song.
[00:00:38] Troy: No, it's not that with a good song, it just, it feels good every time, Brian,
you just, you're playing it You're playing it with the crowd.
[00:00:44] Brian: No
[00:00:45] Alex: Yeah,
I just hope that there's going to be 80 year old artists making their own songs
in,
[00:00:50] Troy: Brian, do you know what it feels like to be adored?
[00:00:52] Brian: No.
[00:00:52] Alex: Troy does.
[00:00:53] Troy: It's, yeah, it's very powerful. Feels really, it feels really, really good. Brian,
[00:01:00] Welcome Start
[00:01:22] Brian: welcome to People versus Algorithms, a conversation about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Morrisy. I write the Rebooting newsletter and host the Rebooting Show podcast Each week. I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor Troy Young. Writer of the People versus Algorithms newsletter, and Alex Schleifer, former head of design at Airbnb and founder of Universal Entities.
In case you haven't heard, for some reason, AI is coming. Actually, no wait. It's here. Whether it's the Balenciaga Pope silliness or apocalyptic warnings that maybe humanity will end because Microsoft was pissed about losing to Google. Its search AI is sort of like, It's everywhere and everyone's got a hot take, whether you like it or not.
This is particularly true in the media business because when it comes to tech disruptions, media always goes first, and AI tools, particularly when it comes to the creation of media and also the distribution of media. A ready need to have a far more profound and quicker impact on the media sector than many other areas, or maybe that's just what I focus on.
So the urgency sea side of me. Either way, it's top of mind in most of my discussions. Just this week, I spoke with a long time publishing executive who's grappling with the impact of AI enabled search in the future, admitting that anything that speeds people's searches by provid. The answers directly to them in the form of a chat.
Is that base a threat to many publishing business models? It's hard to imagine a scenario where the answers to chats aren't good enough for many commercial searches that today end up on publisher webpages and occupy a critical part of those companies, business engines. And that's because of course, this type of traffic is known as.
And that is the most valuable for publishers. I mean, just this week I was reading an article on Yahoo News of all places that broke the story that Trump would not be fingerprinted or have his mugshot taken, during his arraignment. Now that's pertinent. It got a flood of traffic. I couldn't help but notice, but the ads I saw on those pages were for to fungus treatments, and that's the market telling you how advertisers value breaking news in an area like Trump.
They wanna stay as far away from that as possible. Now, compare that with a. On Google. Which today leads you to a product comparison page on Yahoo. Those are highly valuable and they retain their value over time, and most news does not. So in essence, a lot of this kind of evergreen content subsidizes, for instance, news content, which publishers.
find difficult making money because guess what? Advertisers don't want to be next to that kind of stuff. So this week we consider what the age of AI will mean to the media business. This is a conversation I believe we'll have in many permutations in the months to come. After all, Alex is alarming me by declaring that quote, unquote, the spaceship is over the White House.
While. Troy seems excited by the business possibilities. I try to occupy the middle ground, of course, but this spaceship over the White House talk has me wondering why we're doing this at all. I mean, this seems like an area we should maybe discuss a lot more. As always, we would appreciate your feedback and help in growing this podcast.
Big thanks to David Grant. he used to run the meta journalism project who wrote in with some very thoughtful feedback on our formats episode and also a newsletter I wrote on the. David actually turned this into a, LinkedIn post with some great thoughts about the role formats have in building products.
I highly recommend it. We'll link to it in the show notes, and I plan to write a little bit more on this, in the rebooting newsletter. So make sure you signed up, while I'm on the, promotion. Bit if you haven't already, check out the Rebooting show. I have a episode, coming up next week with CK ceo, Chris Best.
so be sure to subscribe to that feed and check it out, and send in your feedback. my email is brian@therebooting.com and also, if you have a chance, leave a rating and a review of this podcast on Apple or Spotify. And. Share it with anyone, you think would find it valuable, tweet it or, maybe take it to LinkedIn.
The last good social network. Here's a conversation.
[00:05:08] Welcome End
[00:05:09] Brian: All right. I wanna start with like where we are on AI right now. Cause I feel like we've talked about it, like ad nauseum and so we're gonna continue to talk about it ad nauseum.
[00:05:16] Troy: That we've talked about it. Have we talked about it here too much? Do you think?
[00:05:19] Brian: no, I don't think too much. I just think that, you know, it can be a little repetitive to some degree in, in some ways it reminds me of the Trump indictment, which as we're, Recording this. It hasn't even come out, but everyone has to talk about it even though like until they've like actually seen it.
there's not really all that much to say. And I feel like
[00:05:35] Troy: feel like my, I feel like people like it when I write about ai, so I just keep writing about it.
[00:05:39] Brian: Oh yeah, for sure. Yeah. because right now is a perfect time, right? There are a lot of tests and experiments and all of us probably Troy more than than both of us. you and I, Alex, are trying to extrapolate from this limited information and, and come to some sort of grand conclusions when, you know, probably the reality is who knows.
let's start with where are we now? And I wanna start with the idea. Maximalist and minimalists and those in between. Cuz, Troy, I think you're a maximalist. I've read, I've read your stuff on ai. You're very excited by this stuff.
[00:06:08] Troy: Yeah. Very. I don't know if I'm excited. I, I think that when I was reading a, a little bit about it in the last couple of days, It was pretty shocking to see some of the extreme points of view, expressed, as op-eds in places like the Times and The Atlantic and Time Magazine from seemingly credible people like, research scientists and the like, really warning that this thing could get outta hand
the evolution of large language models to what we see in chat G B T four now to something that approaches agi, could easily. just have consequences that we, we can't really fathom, to the point that, it just, the contrast is funny to me. I think that we, you know, there's always a natural kind of hype cycle, but it wasn't very long ago that people thought, well, this is just an, a cute little, extrapolation of autocorrect and that it was just a machine using statistics to, to kind of model language. Just like we figured out how to let the machine model go or a chess, so it kind of figured out what the formula was for language, which is, something that could, mimic reasoning or could do a certain type of reasoning, but had no knowledge and no.
Kind of memory. certainly nothing that approached any of the nuances of human thought because we're born of, the kind of, ability to sense all of the things around us and, this kind of notion of consciousness. But the essays were really like hyperbolic and foreboding.
there's a line I have here, from, how do you pronounce this, guy's like Eliza. Kowski who's an AI researcher, and he said, if someone builds a two powerful AI under present conditions, I expect that every single member of the human species in all biological life on earth dies shortly thereafter.
I talked to my son about it. He's like, ah, it doesn't matter. We're all gonna die anyway.
[00:07:53] Brian: then again, I was posting photos right before, when Covid was starting before all went down and I was no panic here at the supermarket.
So
[00:08:01] Troy: he wasn't alone. Brian, there's Tristan Harris that was part of the anti-Facebook kind of brigade, and they wrote in the into a New York Times essay that democracy's a conversation. Conversation relies on language. When language is hacked, the conversation breaks down and democracy becomes untenable.
I found there were like really extreme positions on this and, and the thread through them all was basically, kind of the overload of our information ecosystem and the way I saw it. And by the way, one, one last point on this is there's this guy who seems to. The most insane insatiable thirst for knowledge is Tyler Cohen, who's an economist who writes like margin, what's it, A marginal revolution or something like that.
Anyway, he was the most sort of sober about it. And I would encourage people to read what he wrote, but he just sort of said that we'll get through it and it'll pose challenges, we'll navigate them. And I don't think there's really practically any way that we can see in turning back. And why wouldn't we wanna, if this does represent new intelligence, why wouldn't we want the world to benefit from that?
we're kind of stuck between two places. Now we see on one side, how can we. You know, our enemies like, China and others around the world get ahead of us on this. It's clearly gonna create advantage in any kind of military or kind of future conflict. In some ways, it's kind of replaced, the kind of nuclear arms race.
if there are all the benefits that we suspect around an, how to extend life or diagnose disease or educate people that can't afford to be educated. there just seems to be so much promise. My focus has been to try to understand what it means to media it brings up a lot of the themes, Brian, that the audience will be familiar with.
from Things we've talked about, kind of small is beautiful, from institutional to individual brands, the importance of community, all that stuff. I just think, It, it accelerates all the stuff we saw with social media, which is more people create shit.
Content becomes less valuable. The feeds in the ways that you navigate content become more cluttered. It becomes harder to recognize, what's real from what isn't. and you know, as such, it, it makes it harder to be a media company. where I went back to, other than the stuff I just said was that there's real value in a chat world of when there's so much noise in the world.
brands actually. Become valuable wayfinders. So it's almost like a kind of intel inside thing. If knowledge can be marked with the authority of a brand, I can see purpose there as a marker or as a verifier validator. I also think that data sets become really important. So some brands, some media brands focus on aggregating data, right?
if you. Health condition database, or you have a database of local contractors or senior living facilities, and that becomes an asset that you own. It strikes me that, it becomes more and more valuable or so certainly if not more valuable than protectable. I'm into that as a concept, partly because I'm exposed to it a lot in a business I work on.
those are some intro thoughts. I don't know if that resonated. Any of that resonated with you.
[00:11:16] Brian: Yeah
[00:11:17] Insert bit from ep31
[00:11:17] Alex: Here are three things that I had written down for media companies, but really anyone but media companies specifically. Things that they should look at today. do you want me to list them?
[00:11:25] Brian: Go ahead.
[00:11:26] Alex: First of all is to look at anything that you felt you couldn't do because it required scale, and see if you can, narrow that gap a little bit.
So I know that a lot of media companies are, kind of defined by the scale and their budgets. But I think a real competitive advantage that AI can give smaller teams is to try new things out that, might have required, a set amount of people to do and, and cannot be done faster.
Example, like videos with infographics, any of that data stuff that used to take a really long time. and I would say that a lot of them are already starting this stuff, but you should definitely put it into your plan to do that type of stuff. That's my first one. So competing, competing with scale. and I do think that that kind of dismantling of scale as a moat might be kind of an interesting theme, that keeps showing up. two is really, understanding the value of your data, so your data might become the most valuable thing you own and data. content, et cetera. That stuff used to be stuff that you can go to any, used bookstore and buy 500 issues of National Geographic, because, there's always kind of an old collection of that.
And I, I feel sometimes the media companies treat their old evergreen content like that and just feed it to Google and make really like, fractional sense on the potential dollar value of this stuff. And what do I mean by that? I think companies should start pulling away a lot of the data and their ability to be, scanned by learning models.
Now, a lot of us haven't already, but if you have any data that you think is proprietary, I would consider what you want to pull away from it. Now, I was having this conversation with this, startup who's putting a lot of stuff that they own as seo, because that was a great marketing, campaign for them to have a lot of that data as seo when people do search queries.
but I think I might have convinced them to pull a lot of that data away and hold it while all those things happen because the SEO value is really fractional, compared to the value of the data. And I think we, we need to start thinking like that a little bit more.
[00:13:19] Troy: Yep. Good one.
[00:13:20] Brian: But I think these are all like accelerations and we'll get onto how we think because like this is accelerating a trend in which scale has gone from a competitive advantage to, in some cases an albatross.
[00:13:31] Alex: my third thing is that it is actually much more of a personal thing, and I think it applies to everyone and applies to Brian specifically. I have become much more, Knowledgeable and intentional, about how I think about AI ever since I've, done one thing and that thing is to try to save, half an hour a day, an hour a day by using ai.
so every day my goal is to try, where can I shave off an hour of stuff that you would do that day by using AI personally, because I think it teaches me how to apply to my business and to the advisory work I do. So, for example, planning a trip, creating a table of destinations, planning a shopping list, a checklist of things, you know, I'm gonna go on a road trip.
and seeing like, you know, being quite intentional about this would've taken me 20 minutes and it just took me 30 seconds. learning new things. I've been doing a lot of that. and also, Forcing myself to go to chat g p t over Google, which took a couple of days and now I'm, in chat g p t 90% of the time.
And the only reason I go to Google is for realtime news because I don't have access to the web yet through my chat g p t. But try to shave off whatever you're comfortable with, 20 minutes, 30 minutes, an hour of work that you do every day using ai, I can guarantee we'll find stuff to do.
And it will,it'll make you feel much more comfortable about the technology and what it can do. That's
[00:14:44] Troy: Those are great, Alex. Thanks for that.
[00:14:45] Brian: Yeah. I just wanna start with the maximalist and because I think you. Sort of laid out the camps right. To me, like there's the maximalist who are like, this is gonna change everything. This is like one brain, And then there's the doomers. And sometimes these overlap and they're the ones, this is, this could end humanity.
the one you were saying. It's oh, this good chance of just wiping us all out. Let's, let's plow forward. And then the pragmatist, which is like Tyler Cowan, yeah, this is probably gonna. profound change, more profound for some people, in some professions like media, I think. but that ultimately, you know, nothing ends we split the atom and we're still here, we end up learning to live with all of these things the way they're going to be used and the impacts they're gonna have.
I don't think anyone, any of these people can say that they know at. take deep fix. So we've been caring about deep fakes for I feel like 10 years now. And AI is perfect for deep fix. What I see right now in the most part is they're used for jokes. and
[00:15:44] Troy: I
like the deep fakes of presidents playing video games in the
[00:15:47] Brian: yeah, that's very funny.
[00:15:49] Troy: Yeah.
[00:15:50] Brian: Pope, it launches like all of these, chin stroking articles about oh no, here comes the deep fakes and the misinformation cuz misinformation is everyone loves misinformation.
[00:16:01] Troy: I wanted to ask you guys about that. Now I'm obviously a, a pretty active and kind of voracious media consumer, but when I read anything, when I encounter information, I look at the institution or the brand that it came from. I look at the individual, try to understand, I mean, I feel uncomfortable sort of.
Overprocessing or, a piece of content not knowing its origin. So I always look for the providence of a piece of content, I talk to my family about it. how do you understand, where something that you read, where it came from and how accurate it is, and do you feel like that's, part of your, your kind of media consumption process?
And, and, and I just can't understand how it's not, and so the idea that, that I'm gonna be overwhelmed by, by something that's, just sort of consumes me without any kind of critical interpretation of it. I find it hard to
fat.
[00:16:57] Alex: I think we're down playing a few things. sure. You might have the wherewithal to be more intentional about, you know, what you define as true or what you believe, but I think even if you do, but other people don't, it can still impact you.
[00:17:10] Troy: So you're telling me that someone that's not me just reads something they see on Facebook and they're like, yep, that's true. Holy shit, I'm gonna go out and protest people
[00:17:20] Brian: 100%,
but I think this could improve it because there's gonna be so much bullshit out there that like the default position is gonna be, everything is bullshit. Now, I don't know
if this is a good or a bad.
[00:17:31] Alex: that's exactly, but that's my point. So let me take a step back and, because I'm actually on the side of. I'm not calling the extinction event, but I'm on the side of people who think we should be very, very careful with this stuff.
for the only reason that we have no sense of, or, we can't foresee any of the use cases popping up. They're popping up faster than we can, absorb them and we actually don't know what happens. When something that used to take a hundred, a thousand, 10,000 people, a billion dollars, whatever, can be done one by one person in that bedroom, we don't know that,
The nuclear bomb rockets to space, all this type of stuff, it's easier to control because if any government wants to start doing this stuff, then you need a huge amount of infrastructure here. We don't know what somebody can do in their bedroom. biology of it or whatever. Like we have no idea what happens.
And I'm not saying it's a hundred percent plausible that this is really bad for humanity, but there's definitely a
[00:18:24] Troy: But what, what might they do in their bedroom, Alex? What might they be?
[00:18:28] Alex: once you start having an AI that can control an interface that connects to the internet, using a plugin or something like that, and applies some sort of logic,you can do incredible damage.
probably very advanced hacking. You could, do the social engineering required to get a lab to do something crazy. All of these things are far-fetched, but they're no longer impossible. and it also gets amplified or, That type of worry, gets exacerbated when you start thinking about this hypothesis as to why we're not seeing any other intelligent species in the universe is because when they reach their stage, they reach a level of technological advancement that completely eradicates them,
we put these two things together and
[00:19:10] Troy: I'm
[00:19:10] Alex: okay, well this could be one of those
[00:19:12] Troy: this episode. I'm loving this
[00:19:14] Brian: I didn't know you'd be the est. I thought you were gonna
be the pragmatist.
[00:19:18] Troy: Do you have a bomb
[00:19:18] Brian: the pragmatist. This is.
[00:19:20] Alex: well, I mean, I live on a farm and I
[00:19:21] Brian: Troy's on the side of private equity. They love this shit. They love it.
[00:19:25] Alex: look, I can, I also love it. I also think this is, the closest we're getting to the Star Trek future where knowledge is instantly accessible to anyone.
and it becomes the fact that hey, because nothing is real or everything can be faked. then being, Close to each other and being connected and a, in a, in real ways becomes much more important. Maybe this is the thing that completely, dismantles kind of the social media,ecosystem and, gets us back to being a little bit more, Human about the way we spend our time.
however, my biggest thing, just sting it back to media. Sorry, that was a long runabout way. I am suspicious of all this stuff. But bringing it back to media, the thing that matters to me the most, is not like right now, everybody's kind of amused by the fact that fake things can be made real and be confused at real.
I think it becomes really important when nothing real. And you said that, Brian, but when nothing real, no matter how bad it. is that can be disproven. by nothing else than saying, oh, this is a deep fake, this is a deep fake, is this is fake news? Times a million.
[00:20:25] Brian: But that's what I mean. This is all an acceleration of the, all of the trends that Troy talked about are just an acceleration of the things we've already seen. I'm not sure if it's with a little bit of
apocalyptic.
[00:20:35] Alex: you're downplaying the profound changes that happens when anything can be created. Artificially and look a hundred percent real. I think this is, it's profound. It's profound when, robo spam collar hacker can use your wife's voice to call you.
It's profound when news can be completely dismissed as untrue. Even though you have video evidence, the cops go, no, no, no. That's a deep fake. you look at kind of stories that happened in the last five. well that video is fake, of, cops brutalizing, someone on the street or, the telephone conversations that people are having, commuting fraud, that's also fake.
All of it is fake. And I think that, it might hugely benefit people who are shameless and willing to bend those things to their will. So it is profound. and in media is also very profound because, media is based around the interface, whether it was newspaper or tv, whatever interface is being used to, project I media to people. And this completely and deeply changes what an interface. And so everything's about to change. it is literally like I'm having conversations with people and what I wanna say, is that the spaceship is floating above the White House, and we're all talking about how that spaceship isn't that realistic looking No, it's there.
You know, like people saying, well, if you look closely to the Pope, his belt buckle doesn't look real. It made the
[00:21:51] Brian: you can tell with the hands. The
hands are words.
[00:21:54] Troy: You should stop. Don't, don't take any more calls, Alex.
[00:21:57] Alex: Six months ago, it would've, it would've been like, oh, he, he doesn't really look like the Pope today. We're we're looking at the shape of his fingernails tomorrow.
That stuff's gone. we're the frogs in the pot of boiling water here and everybody's going. There are two types of people. People go to me, yes, this is incredible, it's deeply impacting the way I think about the future and the way I spend my life. And people go, yeah, but you know, I asked it to write a Seinfeld script and it wasn't really perfect. All right, great. a year ago, that was impossible or that wasn't available to us.
[00:22:25] Brian: I think there's three groups. There's the people that you know
is like, this is incredible. I'm gonna make. Of money off this, number one. Number two is, this is incredible. It's going to extinguish humanity. And number three are the Seinfeld people. That's where I am.
[00:22:40] Alex: Yeah, but the Seinfeld people are going to be run over by this stuff. it's changing so fast,
[00:22:45] Brian: I understand that, but honestly, there's so many people in this world, so much stuff as still not been ironed out with any of this. And there is still not that much. That regular people want all this stuff. I know people cite that a bunch of people went to chat g p t one time This is not yet a consumer, like a regular person
[00:23:05] Troy: But Brian,
[00:23:06] Alex: is a crazy statement.
that's so
[00:23:09] Troy: insane. And it's being, it's being woven into everything that we, that we use, everything that we do, every application
[00:23:16] Brian: big data was like
[00:23:17] Troy: I gotta tell you, Alex. what you just said, I found was pretty compelling.
Thank you for, your contribution today, I was on the phone with a guy who has an AI startup yesterday, and he's like, yeah, I need to make some money for my mom, but the world's probably gonna end by 2040. And I was like, well, this guy's an insider, really smart Israeli ai and you know, guy and I just had to stop and say I was entirely dismissive of the kind of the doom people I'm not in their camp.
we're finding ourselves in a situation, guys, where we need AI to protect us from AI
And, I think that it just means, I always wondered when I was when I was young, like, how would society ever sort of catapult itself into a kind of doomsday scenario?
And it's precisely this. It's like we are driven forward by both our love of technology in a scenario where we kind of, have no choice It's just this kind of weird prisoner's dilemma that we're finding ourselves in where we need to have it because of, it's gonna provide protection and we love technology and we're worried about the Chinese and it's gonna cure cancer and all this stuff.
But at the same time, it's kind of sowing the seeds for our demise, I don't think that's entirely unrealistic. Brian.
[00:24:28] Brian: Well, of course not cuz we've been telling ourselves. Is for generations about technology taking. I mean, if this didn't play completely into science fiction, I don't think that there would be as much of the
DOR ism.
[00:24:40] Alex: but look at it in very real terms. What this is able to do, pass the bar exam or, socially manipulate people so that they answer capture thing. this is beta software, and you're saying this is not a consumer, this is a fastest growing consumer product ever by all accounts.
it jumped to a hundred million users. The reason you can't use it sometimes is because it is so popular that the servers go down.
[00:25:02] Troy: That, and he didn't pay for a subscription.
[00:25:04] Brian: I didn't pay.
[00:25:05] Alex: I was at a conference thinking that I would be, one of the people kind of ahead of the curve, but, everyday people were telling me, oh yeah, I'm already using it to plan all my travel.
You know, I, I used it to plan all my kind of itineraries here. the other person said, yeah, for my, performance review on my team, I just created a little, script. and I created a little XML structure and I got chat G p T to generate. all the performance reviews after I put in some feedback and it saved me at least
[00:25:29] Troy: Oh, that's convenient. That's cool. I used to hate doing those.
[00:25:32] Alex: I'm seeing these points come up every day when I was, I remember when I was trying to tell people about email, and they were saying, yeah, yeah, that's cool, but yeah, we got a fax, it's fine. And it took three, four, or five years to get there. Even though there was a leapfrog technology and anybody that tried email once should would've seen that, wow, this is gonna change the world.
This is so profoundly different. So profoundly different. And I don't think the world's gonna end, and I'm an optimist, but I think everything's on the table right now
and we
[00:25:59] Brian: Okay. So you're saying three to five years, like when is this? Cuz I've, I've seen zero, I've seen zero economic forecasts change because of this. I've seen zero forecasts of productivity change because of this. So when does
that start? Or is it just because only people in Silicon Valley understand this?
That no economists has changed any of their forecasts?
[00:26:18] Alex: we were all there at the beginning in of the internet. It took years. Okay. It took years before. Okay. But here, for some reason, we're like, look guys, it's been three months and the pop still has weird fingers and it hasn't changed the economy. Oh my God. You know, like I'm telling you, the water was freezing cold. We put the frog in it. Now the water is nice and warm and it's over a nice boiling pot, and the frogs are having a conversation saying, well, I'm not boiling yet, so therefore I will never boil. That's why we're saying, Have you seen the speed at Wish This has moved.
It will change every industry. There's not one product that I use where AI has been integrated in, in, in some meaningful way. This is, a, foundational change to the way things are gonna work. And at some point we're gonna wake up and the world's gonna be different. 10
years, five
[00:27:04] Brian: that point? and and let's, let's bring it back to like media. when is media going to be completely changed by all of this? Because I think media always goes first with these things. Not always, but usually it goes first. And this is completely in the wheelhouse of upending business models
[00:27:19] Troy: I wonder about it immediately actually. And I had this conversation with someone that was looking at, buying a, a company. A couple days ago, and I'm like, this is a company that's, large and it's a utility. It's primarily page based on the internet. It has applications and people use it as a resource to get information.
And I said to him, how do we model, you know, three to five years out, what assumptions do we make about. just kind of fundamental changes to the way that, as Alex said, you know, how the interface changes to information because, I think there are ways to create value in and around the chatbot, and it's gonna change the fundamentally,the kind of paradigm of how we interact with information, structured information, unstructured information on the internet.
I find it hard right now to, particularly cuz this is a company dependent on, I would say last generation models of revenue generation on the internet. How do we think about, a three year horizon? and I think that if you just wanna look back a little bit, if we said three years ago that Buzzfeed was gonna be a, penny stock, because.
the changes in, the kind of middle of the internet monetization model would so undermine their business model that would basically limit growth. and therefore the stock would tank. how do we look at that, when we're buying companies? Right now you have a thought on that, Brian, or more specifically you write a new.
It feels intimate. It feels like Brian's writing me a note twice a week and you do podcasts and stuff, and that feels kind of sustainable, right? what if you're a company that relies on traffic coming to pages? How, how should we be thinking about it? Because that's a lot of folks, man.
It's a lot of people. It's a lot of businesses.
[00:28:59] Brian: Do you think Neil Vogel wakes up every day is oh my God, this is
over.
[00:29:04] Troy: I think that, I don't think
[00:29:05] Brian: I don't know. He doesn't tell me that he does that. I don't know. I'm, I was just looking at futures stock. It's not great, but they, they were sort of overvalued to begin with. why is John Steinberg there?
He must just be ready to put his head in the pillow.
how can these businesses even survive if the ship is over the White House? I mean, which seems pretty impending I just want to know when it is going to overturn society
[00:29:24] Troy: Well, I think that now we're getting a little nitty gritty and. You know, John's decisions don't determine how I think about this. and I would also say that future has a business model that leans more towards a kind of transactional ad system that is perhaps better suited to the future,
they catalog products and sell products and, you know, it's more, as much a data business as any modern publisher. but Neil's business for sure is dependent on crank and page. I don't know. I don't know. It feels, like one would pragmatically wanna apply a discount to those revenue streams.
we've talked about it before. the whole monetization structure of the internet based on. Uniques pages, banners, impressions, all that is being eroded pretty quickly.
[00:30:07] Alex: and it's true that we're likely, as with every technology, we're overestimating its short-term impact and. Also underestimating its long-term impact. I think the thing that's happening right now is that it's moving so fast. So there's gonna be a long tail here.
And I think sometimes I come across as flippant about saying advertising is dead, and all that stuff's going away. I think it'll take longer. for a lot of these things to happen. But if you do think about the interface changing, not for everything, but for a lot of things, how much time we spend on them, what those interfaces look like, et cetera.
The way we, and especially around the way we consume knowledge, media content, those things are going to change relatively rapidly because we. The timeframe that it took for, things to change from the app store launching, we could start looking at it like that. And look at that time horizon.
So three to five years, I think a lot of products that we use that used to have an interface, have a vastly different interface or, are purely conversational or use some models that we cannot even imagine today. It changes the economics and it changes where you can put ads and it changes the way ads are meant to work.
And it opens up a bunch of new pathways for the incumbents to be attacked from all sorts of directions, and also for them to kind of reinforce themselves, If you own the OSS and the phones and stuff like that, you're gonna start squeezing, folks everywhere you can. So, I don't know.
Could be that the Uni New York Times is like tiny in five years and some blogger has something that's worth a hundred billion dollars, or could be that advertising no longer exists. But we haven't ever added this much chaos into the mix. That's all I'm
[00:31:39] Troy: Hey, someone will, someone will put a logo on that spaceship over the White House.
[00:31:44] Brian: Yeah. Do you see like,baseballs putting these, superimposed logos on the mound and stuff, ads always find a way. my money is, that it's gonna take longer than both of you think? We'll see. I mean, mostly because this advance and particularly the hyperventilating, over it and the bedwetting and whatnot, it's happening at a time that's totally different for tech.
And I keep going back to this, I hate to break it to your friends in Silicon Valley, Alex, but you guys are no longer the good guys by default. there's been more scrutiny put. on The role of the technologies that have come large part outta Silicon Valley, in remaking society in ways that often aren't very good.
So when this comes down the pipe and you have the doomerism and it also comes down the pipe at a time of governments being very. Very involved in the economy. The most. They've been involved in the economy probably since Reagan and Thatcher. there's gonna be a ton, a ton of government intervention in this.
Italy already banned chat. G P T Europeans are always gonna be European. and it's gonna slow down. That's what, that's what governments do. They're gonna pump the brakes on this, so I think it's just gonna take a lot longer. And if I was like a publisher, I'd be like, we got, we got, we've got enough problems to deal with the next three years.
we can deal with this later. I think a lot of people are gonna just experiment with it.
[00:33:01] Alex: Yeah, I mean, I,
think that for those three years you can make a little bit of money and then hopefully sell it to some, Hedge fund that's gonna gut it for the photocopier, you know,
[00:33:11] Troy: a private equity, I don't mean hedge fund, but, Troy, go ahead. Sorry. I'm.
I think that it'll take longer too, Brian, but I think the points I would make after thinking about a little bit would be the following, is that the navigational model of the internet that we know today will not. So we're about to see something different.
We're having a hard time figuring out how that incense page content production and what it looks like from a monetization perspective. I think the artifact that is an article. Or a piece of content. Videos do much better because they own a timeline and they can fit advertising in, and it's a kind of different ball of wax.
But the article will exist sort of tangentially to chat, but less importance with less importance than it has today. I think we're gonna see. Interesting things happen at a page level. I think of them today as smart pages and they're pages where we we're not fully just, it's not chat on one side or nothing.
It's like stuff that can be manipulated on a page, whether it's a table or content or whatever with ai. So in some ways, The page, kind of comes to life and I'm really interested in this concept so that if you're trying to sort through information on how to compare bicycles on a page that you could imagine the page doing more than just being a kind of flat.
static, kind of article format. And I think that there's a dynamism that may be enabled by ai that's, that'll be an interesting area for experimentation. So I think there's gonna be new kind of media types as a result of that. I think that media brands are going to really be important, whether they're individuals or institutional brands, to tell people that like to create a reference point in any AI generated.
That there's something underneath of it. that it's valid. I think there's a whole new ecosystem of validation that's gonna evolve much like that company that, I forget the name of the company that Yahoo just bought that ranks news. just a kind of systematic way of ranking the quality of a piece of content.
I think you're gonna see this kind of validation layer become extremely, I. I think that anybody that has anything that approximates unique data, whether it's data about an event, data, about a product, data about,a, a business, or, you know, anything really stand to, benefit from a world where there's a, a kind of robot machine aggregating up information
unique data sets and, and a kind of structure around that that can be manipulated. It strikes me, particularly when it's connected to an economic event, it strikes me that there's lots of value to be, kind of extracted from that. I'll just go one step further cuz you guys haven't interrupted me yet.
I think there's a couple interesting things. One is Google is so advantaged in this. Because of all the data they have and all the users they have and all the surface area that they have, I think that we haven't even begin to see them compete. and that's gonna be really, really interesting. Like, how does barred their equivalent of chat G B T, sit next to search, which is the most traffic surface in the world, how does it manifest inside of YouTube and all of the other applications inside of mail and all that.
So I, I think. That Google's gonna kind of fight back really strongly here. And I think that open AI kind of slept, walked, or just kind of strolled into this kind of role as consumer tech startup when it was kind of a research kind of nonprofit. And I think it's gonna be interesting to see
how they fight to become a real significant player in this, even though they have early sort of first mover advantage.
[00:36:47] Alex: And first mover advantage historically doesn't actually dictate who wins, Google wasn't the first mover in search, so,
[00:36:54] Troy: Totally.
[00:36:54] Brian: info.
[00:36:55] Troy: You know, one other thing I found interesting is, I don't know if you guys listened to the Lex Friedman interview of Sam Altman. Sam is a compelling, compelling dude. It wasn't, It
[00:37:04] Alex: is very compelling. Lexi got
[00:37:06] Troy: Very cool guy. Anyway, it was a couple hours, Brian. It wasn't a six hour one.
[00:37:10] Brian: Is that a short one?
[00:37:11] Troy: There's this thing that he calls system level requests that are becoming part of the chat bot, which I find really interesting.
And that would be answer in the, from the point of view of a libertarian or from the point of view of, anybody that has a way of processing, looking at information. it could be religious, it could be political, it could be from the perspective of a media brand. Basically there's sort of meta controls in their chat engine that says that, cuz nothing is ever unbiased, you can't have one thing and expect that it's going to answer questions in a way that makes you happy and me happy and someone who has a very different point of view.
this idea that, a chap up becomes kind of controllable from. kind of system level, to me is really interesting in terms of how, we'll get information and, bias the results from a perspective that we value or that we wanna start with.
I find that to be an interesting idea.
[00:38:05] Brian:
[00:38:05] Troy: So,
[00:38:06] Brian: just like a very basic question. I understand the arguments. Oh, if we don't do China and stuff like this, it's inevitable Is this all a good idea? Like from everything you've read is this a good idea?
[00:38:16] Alex: It doesn't matter if it's a good idea anymore,
[00:38:18] Brian: no, no. Like
[00:38:18] Troy: mean, I mean, is microwave popcorn a good idea?
[00:38:22] Brian: probably not. Cause I think that is leading to cancers. I think that's one of.
[00:38:27] Alex: I, I want to try to give a serious answer. here's why I say it doesn't matter. Once we've opened up the possibility of technology like this existing, it's very hard to put it back into the bag. I kind of wish that the world was simpler and more predictable as it was before this all happened,
I mean, in the Middle Ages, we would've rounded up all of you technologists and burned you at a stake. I mean, Yeah, but when, when, when was everything, anything ever held back? Let, let me, everybody keeps talking about, well, you know, we held back DNA modification and we held back nuclear proliferation and biological testing. All of these things require massive labs. Equipment that would be traced as a crosses, customs shit that you can see, movement that you can see by satellite,
It's not little Bobby in his bedroom. Okay, let's say we stop it. Italy goes oh, we are gonna stop ai. All right, well, let me just get a VPN and BIT tour and some model onto my computer, all right? and what the fuck are you gonna do against that? that's why I'm saying it doesn't even, I think we absolutely need to be very, very careful about what's happening.
So it could
[00:39:29] Brian: I I agree. We should be very careful about what's happening. If that's the sort of moral
[00:39:34] Troy: Well, well, that wasn't the, that wasn't the question. The question was, is this a good idea? It's not. Is it an inevitable happening? Is it a good idea?
[00:39:43] Brian: because inevitability is a cop out from actually having like morality. We do like the humans. We still have that.
[00:39:51] Alex: But I don't understand the, the framing of that question. Like who, who's having the, what is the good idea? Let's maybe clarify.
[00:39:56] Brian: Okay. Should we go down this road? Because I mean, you've painted a very compelling and somewhat apocalyptic picture of all the downsides of this. is a good outcome worth this? Because the argument seems to be we have to do it, we have to do it. We have to do it. Okay. Is this a good thing?
So basically, the unfairly attacked tech people are like sowing the seeds of humanity's
demise because Bing lost to
[00:40:22] Troy: that? We were talking media and now you keep steering the conversation back to is this a good idea or not? And I'll
[00:40:29] Brian: Well, I think it's a foundational one.
[00:40:30] Troy: I don't even think it's worth discussing because it is, and it's like we ain't stopping it.
[00:40:36] Brian: Okay. This is why, this is why you got G D P R, Mr. I e b Chairman,
[00:40:40] Alex: Man, GDPR couldn't stop people from
[00:40:43] Brian: I know, but we were told, we were told in this very same manner that privacy is dead. Get over it.
Right. I,
[00:40:50] Troy: Well, I just was gonna reframe it slightly, and all I was gonna say is how do we put limits on this technology such that we limit the risks of little Bobby in Italy, getting on a VPN and hacking into some nuclear enablement system? I mean,
as
[00:41:09] Alex: Yeah.
[00:41:10] Brian: That was in war games, wasn't it?
[00:41:12] Troy: right? but you know, how do we benefit from all of the wonderful potential in health and education and all of that, and what kind of guardrails should we be thinking about How do we get much better at you know, even in media, the reason that media is important is because there's lots of downstream shit for media because people do stupid things when they consume the wrong information. how do we as a society start to think about the kind of veracity of the content that people
How do we create a structure so that media can be. Is that possible? Should we get smart people thinking about that? How do we create a crack AI team inside of the CIA that has got the best tools in the world that can start to, get in front of anything that, potentially any of the kind of these apocalyptic scenarios, like how do we use the technology more effectively to protect human?
While allowing it to, do all the wonderful things. I think that's how we have to be thinking about it. and in the short term, we can't allow people like Donald Trump to win the presidency because he
[00:42:20] Brian: With.
[00:42:20] Alex: well, we don't know how that's gonna impact the election, but maybe Brian, like another way I was think of framing your question, the good, bad idea for me is is it a good idea to do this kind of freewheeling testing out in the open in public versus doing it under kind of government, you know, some, some, some sort of like kind of government control,
that's the big question, Should we be putting this out there into the world and see what happened? While the stakes are still relatively low, which is actually something I think Sam Altman says, or should we keep that kind of closed and make sure that we figure out all the different use case?
And I think. I kind of wish this technology doesn't exist. It's the one of the first technologies that I feel the most really uncomfortable about and I'm, a technology optimist usually, and I also feel like we're doing really uncomfortable things by testing this all out in public.
I just cannot see how if you clip kept this, all this whole stuff, like completely. Source how you would test all the different, use cases. while, like I said, while stakes are still relatively low, and hey, maybe this forces us to fortify our banks, our system, our telecom coms, our nuclear silos, whatever, but at least it'll force us to do that.
[00:43:27] Brian: I've gone from being very skeptical of the doism to like,shut it down. I'm moving to Italy. Uh, cause this doesn't seem worth it. Why is this worth it? I think
[00:43:37] Alex: I don't know, man. Maybe it's worth it. Maybe it's worth it because it helped us cure all diseases and get us out of, the climate change and make us a multi-planetary species. Or I think we're, at the fucked up time as all this stuff like drops and we still don't know how to use it and we're gonna get hurt maybe in.
Three generations From now, people will be like, God damn, thank God all this AI shit happened. But right
right
[00:44:01] Brian: we, we gotta get on the
good
product cuz we.
But like I really do, I think we should continue the conversation about whether we should do this or whether we should round up the technology
[00:44:10] Alex: well maybe we should do this, a two-parter and have another part of this next
[00:44:13] Brian: I am very not convinced. I mean, the idea of governments doing the experimentation, I hope we're not gonna do it at the Wuhan like AI Institute.
and it's just like that, the gain of function stuff, because there is a good debate about whether gain of function research is even worth it. it's like, no, you have to do it. You have to do it. No, you don't have to do every anything. And if the idea is we have to do, and I, I believe we're a technological species and we will always want to push forward with technology, I'm now believer in your theory that we'll eventually just sow the seeds of our own destruction as,
as
[00:44:45] Troy: last hour.
[00:44:46] Brian: humanity.
Yes. I have changed my, my view
[00:44:48] Alex: Wow.
[00:44:49] Troy: Okay. You know what's starting, you know what's starting to sound very compelling, Brian is,an afternoon nap, a nice leisurely meal. waking up, you know, around eight o'clock and sterling to the local, the espresso place in Florence and having
a coffee and then a nice conversation sometime during the day.
you know, maybe in the evening, seeing a movie, just, a simple, a simple, a simple
[00:45:13] Brian: don't we go back to this? I want a pastoral life. I've been convinced of
this the
[00:45:17] Alex: I, you know, they've, they've said that like flip phones have been, selling out because Gen Zers. trying to get offline a little bit. So, who knows? Maybe this pushes us all to spend more time walking in Italy.
[00:45:29] Troy: But what about little Bobby?
[00:45:30] Brian: little This is Bobby
the
Italian Roberto.
[00:45:33] Alex: well, Bobby's in his bedroom until the world explodes, so, he knows.
What's that?
[00:45:37] Troy: I forgot to bring a good product today, shit.
[00:45:40] Brian: a good product.
Oh go ahead
[00:45:42] Troy: yeah.
[00:45:42] Good Product
[00:45:44] Alex: I went to the movies yesterday for the first time in a long time. Actually
[00:45:47] Troy: Oh. Would you see the
[00:45:48] Alex: I,
[00:45:48] Troy: movie?
[00:45:48] Alex: no, I watched John Wick four, which was a fucking spectacle. And I was thinking about it, how big tent pole movies can be good products, because, you know, Marvel's been, not doing very well.
they kind of lost a plot a little bit, but in the past few months we've. Top Gun Maverick. We've had Avatar two
[00:46:07] Troy: You loved Avatar. He got
[00:46:09] Alex: and we've, and we've, had, John Wake four all movies, which really feel like they, they all felt big and they all felt like a real events and being at a, theater to watch them felt like you were enjoying them the best way you could.
And, John, week four is, it's just the amount of set pieces that this movie had. You know, there's five or six or seven scenes that would make kind of the height of any movie, any action movie, but it piles them up and you're kind of exhausted at the end of it. But it's incredible.
And I do think that there is a shift maybe in theater, that these big dumb movies and, and I'm not calling this high cinema, but these big dumb movies are kind of made for that type of rollercoaster ride of being in a big sound system with other people that are also whooping and laughing when some guy gets his hand shot
[00:46:53] Troy: off. I like it. I like it. You know what else is not a, is a good product. If, if we're gonna use this as a kind of good product slash media corner. with a couple of minor, reservations. The new Tetris movie is, worth watching for sure. And it's the story of, you know, one guy's quest to kind of buy the IP rights to Tetris from the, it's Russian inventor and, all of the kind of machinations that go on that try to prevent him from that. It includes, the evil Robert Maxwell who tries to kind of thwart his efforts to do the right thing and pay and get the rights and all this, but it really
[00:47:31] Brian: this based on a true story?
[00:47:33] Troy: based on a true story.
There's a, there's a kind of a corny chase scene in it when. Bad guy. Russians are trying to prevent him from getting on a plane and it's a little
bit,
exaggerated, but the movie is, is great and, Tetris is a very, very simple idea and a wonderful game, and one that I remember when it came out and I remember obsessing over it.
And I like the movie, so that'll be my submission.
[00:47:54] Outro
[00:47:55] Alex: . All right. Well, okay, let's wrap
[00:47:56] Brian: All right, let's wrap this up.
Thanks so much for listening. Again, if you've made it this far, Let me know your thoughts on this. my email is brian rebooting.com. Russians are gonna be cast as villains in, Western movies for another generation.
[00:48:08] Alex: like they haven't before, but
[00:48:09] Brian: All right, well now it's, yeah, but
[00:48:12] Alex: although John Wick, I gotta say, it's, it's a, I think it's a, it's a French guy,
[00:48:17] Troy: You know who are never bad guys. Canadians are almost never bad guys.
[00:48:21] Alex: I mean, they're not, yeah, they wouldn't.
[00:48:23] Brian: Yeah.
[00:48:24] Alex:
See you guys. See you next week.
[00:48:25] Troy: Thanks.
[00:48:26] Brian:


PVA S1E31
PVA S1E31
[00:00:00] Cold Open
[00:00:00] Brian:
my long winded soliloquy, where at the end of it Brian just completely changed the subject and said, but are you a maximalist? Or you know,
all right, Brian, I'll let you respond No, Troy, this is the Troy show. This is the, this is the underlying dynamic of this show.
[00:00:13] Alex: is,
[00:00:14] Brian: Troy trying to make it all about Troy.
Go
[00:00:16] Alex: it's
[00:00:16] Troy: All right.
[00:00:16] Brian: So Troy, you
can
continue.
[00:00:18] Troy: I'm not making it all about me.
[00:00:20] Brian: you've already had your son on, yeah, I think we are,
[00:00:22] Troy: hold it, hold it, hold it, hold it. the sun episode was meant to be a test of having another voice and a different point of view on our podcast, and I thought it was worthy as such. So, stop it. Stop being like that.
[00:00:33] Brian: See you're baking him more about yourself.
[00:00:35] Troy:
[00:00:58] Welcome
[00:00:58] Troy: Welcome to People versus Algorithms, a conversation about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Marcy. I write the Rebooting newsletter and host the Rebooting Show podcast. Each week I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young, writer of the People Versus Algorithms Newsletter, and Alex Schleifer, former head of Design at Airbnb and founder of Universal Entities.
[00:01:20] Brian: This week we're taking a break from ai. Don't worry. We'll get back to it soon enough to discuss a related issue, how we come up with ideas and how we work. I'm a writer and an editor by trade and writing is the harder job and only editors will tell you differently. The rise of AI tools for writing will again call into question the utility of writing.
As a profession, and I can understand this growing up, I didn't think of writing as a viable career choice. It seemed more like something you learned to do in childhood, and then you went on to acquire other more marketable skills. I mean, if you could. But you sucked at math. Your parents generally pushed you to go to law school.
The worst part about being a writer is starting the writing. I'm pretty sure that even the most experienced writers dread the start. It's somewhat like the point of entering the ocean where the water gets to the waistline, but the writing itself to me has always been overrated as part of the process.
Most of the efforts should be done on the front end, coming up with the idea and argument or the reporting, depending on what you're writing. And then on the back end in the. I mean, you have to drown your kittens as the cliche goes. The writing itself is, for the most part, a chore to be done. I'm not sure why it's romanticized.
In fact, I find I do my best work. When the time for writing is constricted, just writing. This is done of course, at the last minute, as Alex texts me for the third time, wondering where the intro is. Since we recorded this episode over a week ago, procrastination is also an important part of the writing process.
Doing the writing in a sprint is one way to avoid overthinking and talking yourself out of what you wanna say. The thinking should already be done in your head. The writing part's just getting out on the screen or in the old days onto the paper. It's a bit of a different episode, so I hope you enjoy the different perspectives that we bring to it.
As always, send your feedback. My email is brian@therebooting.com.
[00:02:59] Welcome End
[00:02:59] Troy: couple things and it's about both of you guys and I was thinking it would be fun to do an episode on how we work and how we think and how we get ideas and how we use time or other processes to let our mind wander or get better ideas or fill in the gaps and all that.
And, and it started when I was with Alex last week, Brian in Berkeley, California. I've known Alex for a long time and one of the things that I like is when I make a dumb comment, he's really fast with a kind of witty response. I like that. but I saw him do something with a group of young product people that was just really useful.
he really of slowed down the conversation, got them extremely focused on one use case, that was ultimately the real differentiator for this product, this product's in the music space. really forced the group to think through in a structured way, a bunch of scenarios that we could create that would turn, a simple need into something.
Interesting. And through that there was just a lot of creativity unleashed in the room that I think really helped these people. So I admired it and, it got me thinking about, not just the best ways of working with, teams, but how you get ideas. related to that, I'll just add another quick anecdote and maybe we can get started.
And it's, I find writing really hard maybe I'm getting better at it. I set a goal to create 52 newsletters. I've written 63 but like for example, this week's was, hard to write. It took me longer than I wanted it to. I'd like to get it down to a couple of hours. I'm just finding that goal really elusive.
And last week I sent a jumbled, Group of thoughts to you, Brian, and I said, well, I, feel like there's a note here, I feel like it's a bit all over the place. And literally within a half an hour you cut it up. you framed it with the first paragraph, you sent it back to me in a Google Doc, and it just made the whole thing so much easier and I felt
[00:04:55] Brian: Glad that was useful.
[00:04:56] Troy: oh my
[00:04:57] Brian: I did that on my phone in an airport.
[00:04:58] Troy: And I felt like a, that I was completely inadequate and b, just that I, really need to get better at figuring out how to, simplify, the kind of writing journey from the beginning so I can take a single thought and. write it in a way that's digestible. Cuz often my stuff is dense and wandering and all kinds of shit.
So anyway, I appreciate both of those, aspects of, my relationship with you guys. But I wanted to, maybe see if we could do a podcast around, your processes I'll share whatever I can add. But I'm interested in how you do things all the way from like, how do you think about writing to the value of a good walk or a run in your case, Brian?
[00:05:39] Brian: A walk.
[00:05:39] Troy: I like a walk. I find a
[00:05:41] Brian: Oh, I thought it was W O K. Walk.
[00:05:43] Alex: Well, that can be good too. Cooking is good.
[00:05:45] Troy: Yeah.
[00:05:46] Brian: I like
walking,
[00:05:47] Alex: That's a fun topic. Troy,
[00:05:48] Troy: I think it's a fun topic. One thing I noticed about you, Alex, in the old days, is that you would hand me something and then I would say to you, maybe we could do it differently or better or something, and then you'd get mad at me and the next day you'd send me something brilliant or a week later.
I'm interested what your kind of creative process is, Alex. how do
[00:06:07] Brian: but I mean it's, well, let's break it down, right? I mean, the creative process starts with ideas at the end of the day, right?
[00:06:12] Troy: How do you get ideas?
[00:06:13] Alex: thank you for all the kind words.
it's hard for me sometimes to, organize my process into something coherent. I can do things in the moment. but the clearer my thinking, the better. I know the problem that's trying to be solved. If that makes sense. And I think that,one of the reason I might be good at what I do is that I get, I get easily confused.
and there's this voice inside my head that's kind of like, well, what are we trying to do here? I find that being able to pick that out of the room and clarify the question can be very valuable to teams sometimes. So to me it's trying to see, well, why are we trying to solve? Are we trying to find out what we're uniquely capable to do?
What is that, how is that useful to real people? What happens a lot is that,know, especially in a business setting, especially with really smart people and people that come through academia, there's a sense of, becoming pretty, strategic in the thinking and thinking through numbers and goals, rather than much more tactical, which is thinking about people in their day-to-day and what are they doing.
I used to not do that stuff because I used to think, I'm gonna sound dumb, but I go, but what is the thing that the person does? they tap on a thing and they see a thing. Like, why does that, why is that fun? Why should they do it? Are you trying to make it fun? as you ask these like questions, which are really like trying to get to the root of what you're trying to solve.
and then think about real people doing those things, I try to do that, and I've been trying to organize my thoughts so that I could scale it, because when I was working with big teams, I wanted folks to ask the same questions. and I organized it into a couple of models that I think work pretty well, especially around product design or any, anything, that you're making.
And it was answering these three questions do you love it? Is it useful is it scalable? can it be repeated, hey, this is a thing you're doing every day. Do you enjoy doing it? Does it do the thing you want it to do? And then can that behavior be used across the board?
if I, learn this interaction or learn how to do something, is this something that becomes useful for me elsewhere? Because that also makes it much easier to build and then you can start building habits, et cetera. So that was, just setting up questions that people ask has been very useful for me.
But I generally try to get less confused about stuff, and I often get very confused about strategy when I don't understand, the problem we we're trying to solve. And I don't know if strategy is the right term, but I think that has helped me as a, human-centered designer or whatever they call it. Does that kind of tap into the magic you saw in the room that day, which I didn't really notice.
[00:08:36] Troy: Brian, how do you get Unconfused?
[00:08:38] Brian: How do I get confused? I don't know. I think making a product or designing product is somewhat different than, writing or editing what I do. It's just you're creating something new like daily or weekly or couple times a week or several times a week.
[00:08:51] Troy: Well then tell me about how you.
[00:08:53] Brian: it has to be a very compressed process at the end of the day. the difference is like coming up with what you wanna make and what you want to communicate. And my case, writing and stuff a lot of that work I remember during my time in Miami you used to call me, he used to call me more frequently, Troy, but he would call me and.
There would be noise in the background and you'd be like, are you at the pool? I was like, I am, but it's ideation time. And I was half joking, but I was half like, real because I would get like ideas looking at like clouds And then the writing is easy. The writing itself is just that's easy.
that is actually, to me, it's better to be done last minute. I find the best results are like, I don't have newsletter written for tomorrow. I'll get up early in the morning and I'll write it,
[00:09:38] Troy: See, I find that amazing. how well formed, when you're sitting there on the lounger, are you, when you get that idea, do you take notes?
[00:09:46] Brian: No, I just think about what it's gonna be in my head. Like I already have the, I
already have the structure of.
[00:09:51] Troy: but when you're thinking about it, Brian, are you, are you like, okay, so the main idea is X and then I'll support it with these three or four points and here's an anecdote that would fit nicely into it. how do you structure that
thinking? Or what
would you advise me or anyone else on how to do it?
What's the idea you're gonna do tomorrow?
[00:10:07] Brian: so I was thinking about, like I did a podcast last week with, this guy who's running News Nation and The Hill now, he was talking about nonpartisan news and everyone like it, it was a great podcast, but when you keep hearing the same thing, you're like, okay, this, they're trying to get through this nonpartisan thing.
and of course everyone, just uses that as a flag. But I was thinking about it with Trump and being arraigned tomorrow here and also with all this AI debate about how, and I keep going back to it, it's like everyone just, everyone tries to take these extremist maximalist positions on these things these days, and I really blame social media for it because it rewards maximalism.
It does not reward on the one hand. On the other hand, even handedness, you don't need to be a giant growth hacker to understand that you just have to come out with the strongest
possible opinion and just fight every single person in the joint if you're gonna like,quote unquote win at social media.
And that's why I encourage people not to try to win at social media. so I know I'm gonna write something sort of along those lines because I've been like gathering together different threads of different things that to me, like fit in that. And originally I wasn't gonna do it as like an essay format, but then you figure out the format you're gonna write and then.
At Variety Coffee tomorrow at seven 30 in the morning. It'll come to me. that's my process. It's really chaotic.
[00:11:18] Alex: I don't know if it's that chaotic though. and I don't know if it's that different, because I also believe in the idea of executing really rapidly, that part where you sit down, you make the thing should be as compressed as possible. So you're putting out whatever ideas you had, and this could apply to anything you're making.
But I think that what you've outlined is these three phases, which I think apply to most things, which is the thinking phase, the execution phase and then the editing phase where you look at what you've done, and it applies to design, it applies to music, it applies to, I think what we get confused about is that some people love to think being by the pool and having a margarita and just thinking about it.
some people need the walk, right? The walk, Troy, where you were sending us some articles. Some people take a lot of notes. I take notes, but I realize that I never come back to my notes because to me the notes are a way of,making an idea real, and it helps me memorize them and process them.
and so I think Important to know which modality you're in. And so when you're thinking, you open up your mind to be a lot broader, and then you distill it down. You focus it. And then when you have something that's concentrated enough, you go into execution. And that's when you sit down and you write it.
You might have written a hundred thousand words before that, but the actual act of doing it, and then you edit and then depending on the size of the project, right? I'm working on a video game. Or if you're working on a book or something like that, that's a repeatable pattern every day that it just applies to the same thing.
But it's essentially very similar. and I think we underestimate the thinking part because I think that's what makes us really
good.
[00:12:38] Brian: the inputs of the thinking part to me that are the most important. Cuz when people are like, they make a big deal about the writing room or where they write I don't know if you write enough and I'm not more calm or something like, You can write anywhere. it doesn't matter.
and maybe it was just being in newsroom, it's loud and chaotic I write better in like coffee shops or could do it in airports. I could do it anywhere. a, it's one skill I think I have. I could write anywhere, on my phone. I could
write it on.
I think
people sometimes they try to compress and when people get stuck, at least with writing, it's because they haven't done the thinking and they sit in front of a screen and then they're gonna try to like reverse engineer.
And it's okay, let me, let me do an
outline.
[00:13:16] Troy: Can I add a couple observations? Just things that have slowly occurred to me about the writings part. I love that model. Thinking, executing and editing just a quick observation about that. I found that I'll feel semi moronic when I'm writing out things in the first draft.
I'm really hard on myself. This doesn't make sense. I'm not thinking about this clearly. And of all of that, what I've learned is that, if I sort of accelerate that part of the process and I get it out that there's a tremendous amount of magic in the editing piece and just coming back to it, I can really take the blade to the clay and shape something into something coherent.
that's been a kind of new learning for me. I'm bad at a lot of things, one thing I think I'm pretty good at is when there's a bunch of ideas or stimuli, I visualize them in my mind like, what are all these things doing and how do they connect to one another?
So this kind of visualization of nodes is a way that my mind works. And then what I find. That's both a strength and a weakness. It allows me to kind of see patterns in things. But when I go to write it out, sometimes I get really caught up in MOS because I feel like I have to explain it all or to simply put it into a logic.
And one of the things that I've, learned, and this is where I think the visual side, there's an interesting connection between the visual representation of an idea, which is really what you're extraordinary atd, Alex, and I'm not saying that you're not good with ideas or words or any of that, but I've seen you take, ideas and make them visual in really remarkable ways.
And Brian, I think you're, really good at it with words on the visual side, what you realize is there's a lot of tricks to make the eye see something in a way that you want the viewer to see it. some of them are tricks and it might be shadowing or masking or how you make an image move from front to back or how you frame something.
All that. And in writing, one thing I've noticed is sometimes you don't have to say everything. Sometimes you can let the reader do some of the work. Sometimes there's a sort of slight of hand in writing that enables you to paint an idea without having to literally go through it all and explain it all.
I'm of learning of how to do that. I guess that's just sort of storytelling, but it's like, how do I quickly frame an idea where someone can take it and then they. On their end, they can fill in a lot of it themselves. And it's the equivalent of the kind of visual slide of hand in a verbal way.
I think you learn that as a writer. I, I don't know if you agree with that, Brian. or understand.
[00:15:42] Brian: think there's all, all these tricks. It's, it's like when we did that consulting project, the the two by two, that's where, that was my real introduction into the power of the two by two. in consulting strategy land, you can have an 80 page deck. If there's one, two by two on that, they're going back to the two by two.
[00:15:58] Troy: that's the analogy in
strategy.
[00:16:00] Alex: the two by two to me is it's a trick, you deploy it because you know everyone, it's like, okay, which quadrant are, are we in the upper right quadrant? I hope so. I think that what happens, a lot and when people become good at something, it's also because they've done it a lot. And what you're talking about Troy, a little bit is. as you're making something and as you're thinking about it, you also have that editing process in mind, So that you don't, and I think that comes with time where you will over-design something or over-engineer something,
there's this, process that think, make, edit process, that I talked about, and I think, think is, underrepresented in people's minds because they just need to get to work. And then I think the edit also is because they need to launch the thing or put it out or whatever that is,
But the more you do this, the more that process will make every part of that process better. And I think over time, and I can see it as a designer, I have become much quicker at being able to say, oh yeah, no, I don't need to even go there because I think people will figure this one out. And also, I can sit in a room and that's way easier than doing it for myself.
But I can sit in a room and listen to people talk about a topic and edit it down because I've seen this happen or I've seen this specific model discussed or whatever that is. I use that analogy of poker, to be a good poker player, you just need to have played a lot of hands, you can understand the rules in no time.
But it's that having it done a lot, just will make you better. I mean, I don't know what else to say it, but you need to do the three parts of that process.
[00:17:18] Troy: But can I come back to this writing thing? Brian, what, advice did you give me when I was really struggling to get something down on paper? what advice did you give me?
[00:17:27] Brian: I don't know, not to overthink it and just write what you know and what you believe. I think that's why it's important to have a very constrained amount of time because I think particularly as you get, older or more experienced or you have a reputation, I think inevitably you take fewer risks you talk yourself out of stuff and the more time you have, and maybe this is my own personality, the more you talk yourself out of things and you start thinking, oh, I shouldn't do that, I shouldn't do that.
Whereas if you do things, if you're doing the execution and if you did the thinking like beforehand, the execution should be very fast because. I think a lot of times people talk themselves out of things and, hopefully the editing is about making the things clearer and tighter and not doing the, oh, I, I shouldn't do that, I shouldn't do that because
[00:18:08] Troy: Yeah, I think that's a
[00:18:10] Brian: like, of talking yourself out because when you're experienced
sometimes you probably don't take as many risks as you.
[00:18:16] Alex: Yeah. Yeah.
[00:18:17] Troy: o one thing I find is, I really worry that what I'm making isn't going to live up to the expectations I have for myself or that the audience has for me. So I take it far too seriously. I'm sure it's rooted in some kind of childhood trauma or something like that where I, don't feel I'm good enough or whatever it is.
But I was thinking yesterday as I was struggling to write this thing, the note for today, I was thinking,how often do I think back after reading someone's piece, Brian's piece, whoever's, and think, oh my, That really stuck with me as being something that was terrible or just not good, or, I mean, I can't even, I mean, you just don't even remember,
[00:18:54] Brian: I used to say this to people all the time. I'm like, do you think people are gonna start to gather outside and protest? No,
unless you're saying something terrible.
[00:19:00] Troy: you need to be pursuing what is a good product. I need to make a good product. That's my goal.
[00:19:07] Brian: Yeah. But
it should be what you think is a good product. Not, that's what my problem with this over-engineered and over-optimized phase of media is everyone's trying to reverse engineer from results to the product itself rather than like,there's just too much optimization from the end result.
I've seen this like also in writing, I think AI is going to completely accelerate this where a lot of people in tech and tech adjacent industries decided they're gonna get good at writing. So they were gonna take apart the writing machine now there's all these courses on how you, have you heard of this?
It's like copying there's this method in which you, quote, unquote learn to write by copying the writing of others. You like, literally write what they wrote, and apparently by osmosis you then become a writer like them. that's the method.
[00:19:50] Troy: That's a little weird.
[00:19:51] Brian: I mean, it's a shortcut. if people wanna put in the 10,000 hours, put in the 10,000 hours, if not, pay $69 for the course.
It's exciting.
[00:19:58] Alex: I wanted to add this, Troy. it's interesting hearing, you be maybe somewhat a little insecure or healthy, so about the work that you create, because I've really experienced you a lot as my boss and my mentor. it's interesting to see that. Do you find that it's that you can give others advice much better than you can give yourself advice about how to.
[00:20:17] Troy: Oh yeah, of course, of course.
[00:20:19] Alex: And this is why I like working with other people. I find myself much more capable at separating myself from the work and this kind of stage anxiety. we have to remind ourselves that when you're making something, whatever you're making, it's not like a one night only performance,
people are going to remember you for the last thing you did, and hopefully the next thing you do is, better than the last one. And also, the thing I try to tell young designers is you should care a lot, but you should also remember that nobody else gives a sh*tif you can get that balance right, you can, you can get things done really well,
[00:20:48] Troy: I guess that's what I was getting at. Thanks for
that. Yeah. and it's the line between that, that should give you some freedom and.
right. It's really hard to do. Yeah. And, and sometimes I don't have that freedom, and that's why I really have valued this exercise.it really just occurred to me one day that I would try to, use CK as a tool and write a newsletter.
that was the humble beginning, just how this podcast was like, Hey, let's get Brian on the phone and let's start this thing. But, much more than that has been. I feel like I'm on a kind of a journey to figure out a new skill. it's given me some anxiety, but I think it's making me a better thinker.
It's certainly opening my eyes to
the The spaceship over the White House. What,
um, journal?
No, I give myself a really hard time about that. my handwriting's really bad I notice Alex's is really nice and tidy.
[00:21:36] Brian: No, no,
you, no. Just Google Doc. Google Doc on your phone.
[00:21:40] Troy: oh, no, no, no. I do, I, I do make notes constantly on, I just feel like I should get back
[00:21:44] Brian: No, it's not notes. Troy, you write about what you're feeling, what you're thinking.
It's not notes. Yay. Yeah. Like you just write down like what, what you're thinking, what you're feeling, what's going on. what you're observing.
[00:21:54] Troy: I don't, I don't do that
[00:21:56] Alex: Especially when you apply gratitude to it. That's
[00:21:58] Brian: Yeah. I do. At the end of the day, I put five good things that that happened that day, no matter how bad the day
was and
[00:22:03] Troy: every day.
[00:22:04] Brian: Yeah. what I've
found.
[00:22:06] Troy: that today?
[00:22:07] Brian: Actually, no, I don't think, I don't know. We'll see. There's still
[00:22:11] Alex: There's like the Trump thing. There's the thing he had for lunch and we're like, we're at like six and seven,
[00:22:17] Brian: I'm making salmon later. Can't compete with that.
[00:22:20] Troy: I saw that you made a, you made a stir fry the other night that was
[00:22:23] Brian: Yeah, no, I'm, I'm, I made some Kung p chicken, I got this flavors app. some of these Instagram chefs. They're getting savvy and so they're trying to direct people, to this flavors app, which is missing the o it's got all the,Instagram famous chefs on there.
I'm very interested in how they got everyone to do the same format. One French guy is going off on his own, but, everyone is, basically, in the same format, but it's very useful. I really
like it.
[00:22:47] Troy: what's the format? I want to try
this.
[00:22:48] Brian: it's a typical, hands and pans the overhead shot it's all vertical video and it scrolls like, TikTok, I think, cause I don't use TikTok, but,
[00:22:57] Troy: and you found that the quality of the rest, is there any uniformity in the cut of simplicity of the recipes or any of that?
[00:23:02] Brian: I mean, they're pretty simple, they have an ingredient list and you can put it to your grocery. But I just found it interesting that they're trying to get, people off Instagram and stuff and get 'em into this, app, which makes sense.
[00:23:13] Alex: I'm all for it. I think Instagram became too many things to, for too many people. So it, it works for me. absolutely. Also, I would say, last week I talked about how everyone should try to shave 30 minutes of their day using, ai, AI for recipe creation. Is incredible. And, yes, it, it is incredible.
So so what you can ask ai, especially if you're asking around like specific things, if you have a conversation with it, you can say, well, I wanna do a salmon dish and I have these ingredients, and can you make some sort of salmon dish with roast potatoes? Write me a recipe. it'll write a recipe.
The nice thing about cooking is you can see it's not baking right? Where you wouldn't know if something went wrong until the whole thing's baked Here you can see if some of this stuff makes sense. but it will do a really complex, multi-stage dinner a really complex meal for 13 people for a birthday party that includes vegans and whatever.
And then it will compile all that into a very well organized shopping list. And that type of stuff is really impressive and especially if you go back and forth with it.
[00:24:11] Troy: from the last episode. Sounds like you're sort of coming around on ai. Alex,
[00:24:15] Alex: I am holding these two thoughts in mind is that it's incredibly powerful and incredibly exciting, and also it could end us all.
[00:24:21] Brian: Okay. Well, at least you'll have a good dinner party
before
[00:24:23] Troy: yeah. Full belly.
[00:24:25] Brian: we'll have a very efficient dinner party before Armageddon.
[00:24:28] Alex: I was trying to lead it back to the productivity thing, via cooking. And it is
[00:24:32] Brian: Oh, wait. Is the productivity,
[00:24:33] Alex: Well, I don't know. I don't know, like process or creative process. I do think that especially in writing prompts or in getting yourself I find it that I get very inspired when somebody comes with something to me that gives me clarity to know what I want and don't want, and it's always a very good kind of framework.
I'm a much better editor at times that I am a writer and I wonder if that's not the case for most people. I like writing things in bullet points. Everything that I write is an outline. it helps my brain and being able to drop an outline into something that gets mildly structured and join an article that I can then just read and rewrite,
I, I don't even copy and paste and edit it. I just read it and then rewrite it because then it, helps me, organize my thoughts. That has been like a really good hack around. Capturing my thinking and getting started because I do get, even when I sit down to write, I get a little bit anxious about that blank page and I don't write enough to ever get, I think, good enough so that I can just, do it.
So AI has been
[00:25:27] Brian: Yeah,
I
haven't used
AI at
[00:25:29] Troy: is English your second language or your first language? Alex,
[00:25:32] Brian: It's just like third or fourth.
[00:25:33] Troy: third or fourth. Okay. So just on that though, just to dig into that just a little bit, I think we did this, but I, I want to make sure, if I was to ask you what you do when you need to ideate, how do you get good ideas
If you think that, for example, this week you don't have something to write about Brian or Alex. You feel uninspired. How do you manage yourself? What do you do?
[00:25:55] Alex: you start.
[00:25:56] Brian: Honestly, I mean, deadlines are what force ideas. if you have a deadline, you have to re, you'll come up with an idea. It might not be a great idea, you get another shot at it like a couple days later, or even the next day if you're a psycho.
[00:26:09] Alex: No, but I, I agree with that. And even if you are assigning the deadline to yourself, right? Even if you don't have one, just making sure that you have deadline and some sort of milestone does force you down a path. making a decision and just getting to work is actually so important.
[00:26:22] Troy: I thought you guys were maybe gonna say something, maybe more mystical or something
like that. Alex, you turn, where you turn on those pink lights in your studio and you, put your headphones on or, I don't know,
just something like,
I I
walk. I walk. I think
that's
the best thing
[00:26:38] Brian: I think people overly romanticize this stuff. Honestly, it's just,
[00:26:43] Alex: Brian's just a fucking, well, you were saying, you, you're making it sound like you're a machine, but you were just saying you like to hang out by the pool,
[00:26:49] Brian: Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I like to hang out with other pool.
[00:26:52] Alex: Okay. Mean?
[00:26:53] Brian: here. I was saying that I was only like sort of like, I was just excusing the fact that I was at the pool on a Tuesday afternoon. This was 2021 in the zero interest rate phenomenon. It was a different time, and I, miss those
days.
[00:27:06] Alex: I do think that
[00:27:07] Troy: There's
[00:27:07] Alex: yourself out of your,
[00:27:09] Troy: though. I
like this deadline thing.
[00:27:10] Alex: Yeah, Deadlines are
[00:27:11] Troy: like.Early mornings for me, early. Early mornings are great for me
[00:27:16] Alex: I really, I'm a Nate, middle of the night person, which is actually a real struggle. one in the morning I get incredibly, creative and it's hard to go to sleep when that kicks in.
[00:27:25] Troy: I love that feeling, by the way, the feeling that you're talking about at one in the morning. I love that feeling.
[00:27:29] Alex: it's great. Yeah, it is great.
[00:27:30] Troy: Yeah.
Yeah. Just the feeling of of abundance that comes from, new thoughts, new ideas, just
[00:27:36] Alex: It's just you and your thoughts. Yeah. It's appealing. I find it very engaging to have discourse with other people. I always find, I have new ideas when I sit down and, talk to you about this stuff. And I know it impacts me a lot, even though sometimes the ideas about something completely different.
that's something I think went really missing during the pandemic. This idea of sitting in a room. With people forced to discuss something that wasn't just a task, but just have a conversation about a topic.
It's actually quite rare.
[00:28:02] Brian: do you like, group design? I don't know the field, so I don't
like, I mean, I
[00:28:06] Alex: no, I mean, I actually, I, yeah. I like, I like cooperating. when I left Airbnb, I started my own thing. The first thing I did was start to recruit people to work on shit with me. I feel, work is a collaborative, effort. And for me, the best thing is, it's definitely great when everybody has their own skillsets.
always look at that. you're putting together a zombie survival team and somebody's good with an ax and the other person's good with a cross ball. But I actually find it really nice when you have, people have overlapping skills and they, motivate you to be better and they make you come up with new ways of thinking about stuff.
[00:28:35] Troy: That's, I
[00:28:36] Alex: is very
[00:28:37] Troy: idea. They, the of, of the fig, the fig jam, Alex, that's an
[00:28:41] Alex: Yeah, so every meeting that we have at our studio, we actually mostly turn off the cameras so there's no cameras because I find that distracting and then we just turn on this thing called the think jam, which is this collaborative whiteboard everybody's little pointers going over there.
And we can drop images and draw stuff and take our own notes. the amount of presence that, that adds to the meeting and the amount of creative output that you can have by just dropping things into a conversation. That is a little bit more visual, has been instrumental.
instrumental. I see people, working remotely at my place and when I go to the office and so many of those things is people look, they have a Google doc on the ride and a grid of faces on the left. I'm like, how do you get anything done like that?
that doesn't feel particularly, free form enough to really get to a good point. And everybody's trying to, act like they're looking at the cameras while they're reading their email. So we've appended that a little bit and it's been very, very powerful I think.
[00:29:34] Brian: I've never really liked brainstorms.
[00:29:36] Alex: Well, I mean, they can be shit, right? me neither, but
[00:29:38] Brian: I like the idea. I've just never, I don't like the
[00:29:40] Alex: right.
At the same time, they can be, if done well with the right people, it can be the most exhilarating part of any project. think about it this way, like when we sit down and try to come up with topics, sometimes it's a little last minute, but sometimes it's actually really exciting to come up with something together and reaching some sort of, shared excitement around something we've come up with together.
I think that stuff can be really exciting. we don't make enough space for this. the concept of a brainstorm once again is you have this thing that's structured, and it can't be structured. And the problem is you make it structured is because somebody will come into the room and say, okay, well what's the process for this?
I need to know, okay, it's 15 minutes, ideating 15 minutes stack ranking, and then we're gonna go to the thing. And it's like,ah, man, you just killed everything.
[00:30:20] Brian:
[00:30:20] Alex: You
[00:30:20] Brian: Yeah, watch the guy who leaps up with the marker to the white.
[00:30:24] Alex: That's often.
[00:30:25] Troy: Do you make a conscious effort to turn things off? Do you work on vacation or do you stop working deliberately?
[00:30:31] Alex: I stop and I only work four days a week. that has been my luxury. I wasn't going to stop, I know a lot of people who took on pottery and kind of semi-retired and did stuff like that. I would never do that. But for me, the way of making this work is that I gave myself an extra day and I'm very, very, intentional about not working on days where I don't work and not working past six.
I also do stuff like I turn off all my alerts except texting, and Discord. So people know that if they need to reach me, they know how to reach me, but an email might take a day or so. and I also, went from a multi-screen setup of having different apps open to a single screen setup where everything's full screen.
So if I'm it Photoshop, I just see Photoshop. If I'm looking for something, I only see that. and that's been really useful. turn off all your
notifications, single
screen.
[00:31:15] Troy: I had a question about that today, Alex, I was gonna ask you about, but I'll get to that when we get to good product.
[00:31:20] Alex: I will definitely say as well, I mean, everybody knows this, but social media fucking sucks the life force out of you,
[00:31:26] Brian: It does, but at the same time, I feel like Twitter is still, I struggle with Twitter so much because like,
[00:31:32] Troy: No, but you're sniping on there all the time. I see
you
[00:31:34] Brian: know. No, I, it's, oh, I said this to my wife did. I was like, it's like menthol cigarettes for me. And she's I like
menthol
[00:31:41] Troy: I love those.
[00:31:42] Alex: Oh, man.
[00:31:43] Troy: got
[00:31:43] Brian: And she doesn't
[00:31:44] Alex: Talk about, talk about like agreater way to generate ideas.
[00:31:47] Brian: menthol
[00:31:48] Troy: Oh, that's it. We, we never even brought that up, but there's nothing quite like hauling on a cigarette. It's my favorite thing to do. I don't do it anymore, but, my replacement is obviously the zins. They help
me, they help me through the hard times.
[00:32:00] Alex: Well, nicotine is a focusing drug, so,
but Yeah.
[00:32:04] Brian: Anyway, Twitter's menthol cigarettes to me, but it does have utility for, The reason that that people haven't fled Twitter is because it is an inefficient but effective, discovery. it's so inefficient, but it is effective.
[00:32:16] Alex: I find like my time with Twitter to be incredibly ineffective. I do it because, whenever something, you get any reaction from someone, it does feel good. And I think it does hit that and I, there's times where, but I've literally start thinking about like instead of writing tweets, I'm just gonna write a bullet list of shit and I'm just gonna start putting them in my newsletter.
Here's all the shit I would've tweeted in just one newsletter. it's just, It's just messy. And I think a lot of it is, I suffer with ADHD or, something like that. and I think for me it's just really bad to go on there and I get distracted and my thoughts get a little fuzzy because I'm reading all these, it's like walking into a party where everybody's talking by themselves
and you're trying to, it's really unhealthy
[00:32:56] Brian: I know.
That's
why I'm saying it's like menthol cigarettes.
[00:32:58] Alex: yeah.
But mental cigarettes, at least you have a mental cigarette.
[00:33:02] Brian: You're saying hol cigarettes are better than Twitter.
Okay. Maybe. But what I've noticed like since, since Elon's takeover is that it will toss me into it, that for you thing into some strange environments and all of a sudden, random people are just attacking you and tearing you apart.
Like I don't take it seriously, so I don't mind. But
[00:33:20] Alex: But it's also like, how many followers do you have?
[00:33:22] Brian: I don't know, like 40 something thousand.
[00:33:23] Alex: Okay, you have 40,000. I think once you reach that stage, you have a lot more capacity to get engagement. I have 7,000 or something. and if I tweet about something about design or whatever, I might get some engagement.
But generally, like it is worth nothing to me to get two likes in a thing. it's just like a lot of work. And that's what, 7,000 followers, 7,000 sounds like a lot, but
[00:33:44] Brian: Yeah,
I mean,
did, did you see the, thing with I just used Twitter for jokes, all of a sudden college, women's college basketball is apparently very popular now. I guess they had the championship game yesterday and there was this, it's a very Twitter controversy, there was taunting, I guess back and forth between these two players.
with something like the hand in the face, it means you can't see me. I don't even understand the tun. I, I guess this is a Gen Z thing. but I found it like very uninteresting, but I was like, oh, this is gonna be a stimulus package for middle-aged sports writers. Cuz they love to be like, oh no, this isn't how you play the game it's,
[00:34:15] Troy: Stimulus package.
[00:34:18] Brian: forever.
And I thought, I was like, oh, it's a little haha. within 15 minutes I was accused of being ageist, of being anti middle-aged. I'm like, I'm 50. what are we, like what?
[00:34:29] Alex: but don't you know that people are gonna lift till one 20? So now middle age is 60. So hard. There are you,
[00:34:34] Brian: I'm like, this doesn't make any sense. What are you talking about? I try to be
like earnest and respond to
like, Cinnabun 6 55 2.
[00:34:42] Alex: en arrangement equals engagement and it's just not healthy.
[00:34:45] Brian: All right, let's get on good product. I don't think menthol cigarettes, that's a good product.
[00:34:48] Alex: All right. Good
product.
[00:34:49] Troy:
[00:34:49] Good Product
[00:34:51] Alex: Troy, you didn't have one last week, so you better have one this week.
[00:34:54] Troy: Yeah. it's not at a good price point, but I really wanted one of those fancy Apple monitors
[00:34:59] Alex: there are two. Which one? The fancy, fancy one.
[00:35:02] Troy: no, the one that's a couple thousand bucks, that one,
and it's 27 inch Chapel Studio Pro Monitor, something like that,
has a camera in it. It has a chip in it, it has pretty good speakers in it. It's incredibly even. And I got the one that moves up and down and tilts. It's just a beautiful thing.
It adjusts really easily. I just like it and I spend so much time in front of it. I think it's totally worth it. And it replaced a widescreen, LG external monitor I had it's a pleasure to own and to use. So I think that's my good product today. I like it a lot. the thing I haven't optimized for, and this is what I was gonna ask you about Alex, is I don't know how to move stuff between screens.
So I have the laptop in front of it I find it really awkward to move or manage screens between the two surfaces. so what I end up doing, I use this software, which I don't think I'd bring to the group as a good product called Roone. it's like high-end Sonos. You typically use it for audio file level music management.
it's cool, there's some things about it that are cool and, it's how I run a lot of my streaming stuff on my stereo. But I keep that open in one window and then I use. The large monitor for, the browser and all that stuff. Primarily the browser or any applications I'm using.
I haven't got that down yet, but the monitor itself is beautiful. The, the big, big one I think is quite a bit more expensive, Alex. It's 5,000 or something like that,
but
[00:36:27] Alex: crazy there.
[00:36:28] Brian: Why do
people wantmultiple monitors? I don't understand that.
because there's this idea that you will multitask. No, I have, many displays. I couldn't get myself to spend that much money on it. but I know I would enjoy it and it's probably something I'm gonna do once I have a separate home office. put in a couple four and a half day weeks. You can get there.
[00:36:45] Troy: No.
[00:36:46] Alex: I can afford it, but it doesn't mean I'll buy anything. I find that sometimes Apple is just, taking the piss a little bit. However, whenever you buy any of their products, it is true that they're leagues ahead of anyone else. we can't take that away from them.
you can complain about the screen and yes, you can buy a Samsung screen that looks nice and, has a better feature set or whatever. That is never quite like that, and they still own that space of being just
[00:37:09] Troy: It's.
[00:37:10] Alex: can buy sometime.
[00:37:11] Troy: know, and I'm, I'm starting to circle back on these headphones that I'm wearing. The Apple headphones. I'm all apple dough right now. I complained about them because the microphone sucks and I still maintain that's a problem with them. But the one nice thing is, oh my God, do they work nicely in the Apple e Apple ecosystem?
[00:37:27] Alex: So if I walk down, if I walk down to the TV room and I have these headphones on, the Apple TV will recognize them and connect me instantly. If I walk back up, they'll connect to my computer or to my phone or to, And do like stereo, 3D surround sound, and it's kind of
[00:37:46] Troy: pretty cool, pretty
cool. The connection part, if you're
in the ecosystem
better than those skull candies.
[00:37:51] Brian: Oh, mine. These were a giveaway at, some Digit day event, eight years ago.
[00:37:55] Alex: Are they, are they sponsored by, do they have tabula logos on the left hand?
[00:38:00] Brian: I don't think they do.
[00:38:00] Troy: Didn't you like that from our, our ad format? No. What was it? That was the
SEB one that we did? No, it was before the, it was after the format. Format. It was Seb saying, what is this? I just got an ad on Instagram for like tabula or something. which was funny because
[00:38:17] Brian: Do not be Smirch. One
of the
most, one of the most successful ad formats, commercial ad formats of the open web.
[00:38:23] Troy: I'm just saying. And the other thing is clearly someone is targeting, my household by IP address.
And because that was meant for me, he took the bullet and he also got retargeted on, Clothing company that I had been browsing because he's, remember he said,and then there was this like sh spray stripy t-shirt, like what my dad would wear.
And, and it, it's, it's, so funny because it's actually, I'm gonna show it's this t-shirt.
[00:38:53] Brian: Oh, okay.
[00:38:54] Alex: on that.
[00:38:55] Brian: All right.
[00:38:56] Alex: I'm still waiting for advertising to disappear, but let's wrap it up. Yes.
[00:38:59] Outro
[00:39:00] Brian: Thanks so much for listening. Again, Let me know your thoughts on this. my email is brian rebooting.com.
[00:39:05] Troy: before we go Brian, quick update on, ad slot availability. How are we
doing?
[00:39:09] Brian: not availability. we got a few slots in, April, may. is,
filled up.
[00:39:13] Troy: how are we feeling about q2?
[00:39:14] Brian: Q2. I mean, it's probably like 70% filled right now. Got a couple proposals out. July and August those are tough months. I'm might have to cut some deals. Anyone out there, I mean, I'm not gonna like totally pull my pants down, but a reasonable tasteful discount. Let's talk.
[00:39:29] Alex: Love you guys.
[00:39:29] Brian: All right guys. See ya. 


PVA S1E32
PVA S1E32
[00:00:00] Alex: Okay, we can go now.
[00:00:01] Brian: So Troy, I was telling Alex that,two people I met with this morning both brought up the podcast.
[00:00:06] Troy: I told you, Brian, this protest gives you more than you give it.
[00:00:09] Brian: but what, what does that mean? one of them said that you needed an editor.
[00:00:15] Troy: I need an editor specifically, or The whole podcast is poorly edited.
[00:00:18] Brian: No, no, no, no, no. The newsletter. Cause they're, they're too long.
[00:00:21] Troy: Oh, I need an editor on the newsletter.
[00:00:23] Brian: are you volunteering?
you have to
be
willing to be edited. Yeah, I did, but I only got like 900 words in.
[00:00:28] Troy: It wasn't that long, you guys, and not only that, it flowed like the River Nile.
[00:00:32] Brian: There were fewer digressions.
[00:00:34] Troy: God, I wish I could write as effortlessly as you.
If the person thinks I need an editor, do you want to give me their contact information? Maybe they can
[00:00:40] Brian: No, that's why I'm protecting it. from
[00:00:42] Troy: Well, I hope it was someone that was maybe a professional writer.
[00:00:45] Brian: I will say they are Yes. Professional writer.
They get paid to write,
[00:00:49] Troy: okay. I don't,
[00:00:50] Alex: And this is how you receive feedback.
[00:00:57] Welcome
[00:01:20] Brian: Welcome to People versus Algorithms, a conversation about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Morrisy. I write the Rebooting Newsletter and host the Rebooting Show podcasts. Each week. I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young, writer of the People Versus Algorithms Newsletter.
And Alex Schleifer, former head of Design at Airbnb. And founder of Universal Entities. Nobody likes friction, at least in the moment. It stands in the way of accomplishing a task. And modern life in many ways has been an exercise in applying technology to remove friction from everyday processes. The gospel of frictionless experiences is preached by Silicon Valley's priest, cast of product managers.
Spending their days ruthlessly hitting their OKRs by AB testing and then optimizing their way to a friction-free nirvana. Jeff Bezos once declared your margin as my opportunity, but I think he really meant your friction as his opportunity. As Troy points out in his latest post, friction is integral to the media product and business.
It is imprinted on the DNA of media because it has served an essential function in the business Models of media scarcity, after all, is sacrosanct media acting as essential friction by limiting choices available to people. And tech people hate ads because they are, by definition friction. I mean, TV gravitated to commercial breaks as a way to hijack attention and naturally tech came.
To the rescue. With TiVo, there's longer than too much friction in the media business. Not just in the delivery, but in the service of making as much money as possible. Adding more ads doesn't have much immediate costs outside of the friction to the experience. Anyone operating a subscription business knows that addressing churn starts with adding friction to the cancellation product, no matter the long term impact of pissing people off forever.
The lucrative SEO practices of publishers are under threat from chat G P T and the like, because having to go to these webpages is unnecessary friction for the user only. Here's the thing, some friction is necessary in the real world and even preferable in the long run because life is complex and optimizing small details at infinitum can cause people to lose sight of the essential question Alex brought up last.
What are we trying to do here? The remove friction playbook is unlikely to be sufficient with ai, not with the doomsday scenarios in the ether. There will inevitably be friction introduced to the development of ai, the same as societies do for the development of pharmaceuticals, financial services, products, and energy.
AI will officially close the chapter of Move fast and break things. Too much stuff has already been broken. Introducing friction to slow things down is a perfectly acceptable choice. Sometimes speed bumps, inconvenience drivers after all, but they also create a safer environment for pedestrians. I hope you enjoy this week's.
Please send me your feedback. My email is brian@therebooting.com and if you have a chance, rate and review the podcasts on Apple or Spotify or both, whichever.
All right, let's get started. Let's talk about friction. Troy, you wrote about, friction today and we were talking about this. I love the idea of talking about friction because I feel like this is one of those great, like tech versus media divides because tech people,
[00:04:16] Troy: It's the essential one. It's the essential
[00:04:18] Brian: wanna, they want to just erase it everywhere. I think AI is the ultimate friction remover and they're gonna end up removing humanity as they remove friction. Cuz Alex convinced me that the world is ending. explain the essential role just to start off that friction plays in the media business, or has played in the media business cuz it plays a bunch of different roles.
[00:04:36] Troy: Yeah. On the story side, it's essential, it's everything. But that's, that's not what we're talking about. probably, it's funny, I got a note after I wrote it today from someone who said that they are a filmmaker and they worked on a couple of, David Lynch films, he, he made the point that, we are optimizing culture right out of our society.
So much art comes from friction and so much of our best culture, which I, thought was a fun take on what I had said. but I think you, nailed it, Brian. You've got, a class of entrepreneur, using technology to remove friction and that's, Really another way of saying we're building an application that makes your life easier or simpler, whatever.
And then you've got, media and by the way, the fragmentation of media because of digital does actually demand that we create applications that aggregate media, because otherwise it's kind of impossible to navigate. so that force of aggregation makes it easier for the consumer, creates a consistent interface on media, creates a consistent monetization mechanism for advertisers, creates consistent interface to media, which is useful for the consumer.
it's just a question of what, the value exchange is, with the creator of content and that tension between platforms and media is, is old, is the internet. I suppose the other thing is, is that Friction is a big part of media because advertising is by necessity, friction, it sort of says, take, attention from one place and put it into another, which I think the internet broadly is hostile too.
because it wants to be sort of frictionless. you can attribute many things to the existence or absence of friction, but the advertising's had a hard time on the internet in particular, banner advertising because, for it to work well, it has to create friction that is really at odds with what consumers are trying to accomplish.
and the powers with the consumer on the internet and with the aggregator. it's been tough for media, but you know, like all the great things that we admire on the internet, whether it's Alex's Airbnb or Uber or Instacart, or. name any, number of media aggregators are essentially about, removing friction on behalf of the consumer.
And inside of that it can be tough to be media. And you're right, AI is, just a layer that, anything that kind of, serves the consumer in the way that AI will, will, eliminate a lot of friction. And in so doing will create a lot of pain.
[00:06:43] Brian: Yeah, it's funny when you think about like the history of media, friction is always part of the product and tech always removes that friction. I think in the near term, It leads to better results, but it doesn't take into account the externalities of removing that friction.
you think about the TV commercial is complete friction. who in the world wants a story interrupted by two minutes and two seconds of advertisements for dish soap? and so tech comes and they're like, oh, we got this thing TiVo, we removed it. Break
the system. who wants to buy an album where 11 of the songs are not ones you want, but you just want one.
so tech unbundled it. They break it you said something that was interesting to me that the internet is hostile to it. I was just like, but there was just, it was decisions that just got made by people, I feel like that when we're, we're heading into ai, we act like we don't have agency
In doing things, but we do, this was a choice to be made, to optimize and to remove friction at all, junctures I don't know if it's led to a better result.
[00:07:42] Troy: maybe,one of the things that I came to the conclusion of when I was writing this is that it's easy to be hostile to the people that create friction removing solutions, but they do it because people love it. there's a rule in the system that we live the capitalist system, that if you can create a product that endears itself to consumers and in the process, Makes money, I'm assuming that it's within the boundaries of some framework or regulation.
then you do that, that's the game. And so if you create artifact, which is an aggregation of, media properties, or you create Facebook or you create Twitter or whatever it is, the tech companies created products that people loved, we shouldn't be hostile with the tech companies, they were making products people loved and media companies, weren't period.
I guess what got me thinking about it all was the. Hollywood style rant that was at that conference you were at last, that summer four conference, Brian, where, Barry Diller said, Sue these guys for violating your IP rights, the people that inevitably are gonna of flatten your content into, chat G P t response.
and I get it I'm a big advocate for the people that make media. I love media, that's, maybe gonna give us a bit of breathing room to reflect and so on. but it's not gonna change anything. it's gonna march on and I think that regulation will happen.
I thought the best thing this week that I read on reg regulation was that Tim O'Reilly piece that I quoted in the newsletter. you know, it seems to me that even the sort of Silicon Valley libertarians are coming around to the fact that this thing needs scrutiny and we need some guardrails for it.
So I thought that was a, one of the big news items of the week last week, that, you're hearing more calls for regulation. How we do it. I don't even think we understand where the leverage points are to regulate.
[00:09:21] Alex: I don't think we understand also sometimes the motivations, there are definitely some, doom and gloom motivations, but folks are actually finally figuring out that this could severely hurt their income streams once that gets fully activated.
So my guess is that there's going to be a pretty big anti AI media narrative with all these journalists thinking, oh my god, my job can be automated.
[00:09:41] Brian: Well, I keep going back to, I mean, people like journalists and white collar people weren't all that like exercised when automation came for blue collar jobs. But now, now when it's coming for the laptop jobs,
let's pause for six months.
[00:09:53] Alex: I think The people who are invested in AI are, are saying some of the same things, which is, innovation brings on new jobs and everything's gonna be fine. but I think that the tone is changing just because of the speed of evolution and how these things are stacking.
I get updates on everything that went on in AI during the week and last week was another one of these milestone moments, with things like auto, GPT and stuff like that. So the speed is go has got to freak anyone out,
[00:10:18] Troy: Alex, why don't tell the audience what auto G P T is, just so they understand,
because I think consequential.
[00:10:23] Alex: it's kind of a, a project that somebody put up on GitHub. They got a lot of attention and it spawned a lot of, conversation around it. But it's this idea that you can use, technology like chat, like G P T to, create these agents that, try to solve things over time by teaching themselves things and trying different things out based on a single prompt.
So you can say, order me a pizza and the thing will try to run and figure out all the different methods. It has a, its disposal to get a pizza delivered to you, including accessing the internet, getting access to certain things. and so that has,
[00:10:57] Troy: stringing together, prompts
against a task, and then adding,
[00:11:01] Brian: In an infinite loop until
it eliminates humanity in order to
[00:11:04] Alex: Exactly. It's a system. It's a system using itself to solve complex tasks, in ways that are, probably not the way we would do it, but it it gets the job done. another thing that got a lot of attention is this variation on that called chaos, G P T, which has been set up to destroy humanity and the system is now running.
Now some would say that it's
[00:11:22] Troy: I don't think it's been set up to destroy humanity. I think it's been set up to show that this is dangerous technology.
[00:11:28] Alex: precisely or as some
[00:11:29] Brian: Troy, do you have a, do you have a financial interest in this?
[00:11:31] Troy: Yeah.
[00:11:33] Brian: a small angel investment disclosure. I made a small
angel investment into the team.
[00:11:37] Alex:
[00:11:37] Troy: In
[00:11:38] Brian: We don't
know how
we're gonna monetize it,
[00:11:40] Alex: there's a lot of money in world destruction right now. But just to bring it back to friction, because this could become another ai, only conversation really quickly. But to bring it back to friction, I think,removing friction is so tempting for these tech companies because it has shown time and time again that that's what gets customers in and people love it.
I think one thing that we sometimes fail to recognize is that there are really two types of friction, unwanted and wanted, friction sometimes it's perfectly fine to remove, unwanted friction, like ad breaks, when you're watching a movie. Yes. is there a different way of, experiencing that?
you know, once you've maximized all of that and once you've explored, what you think is unwanted friction, then the line gets a little bit blurrier, Then the line gets a lot more like, well, is music discovery an unwanted, unwanted feature? in the moment you think you just want to hear a song right now, but actually in the long term, Kind of meandering and listening, doing different records might be the right thing to do.
[00:12:36] Troy: Or when you flip through the newspaper, it's inefficient, but you find things
[00:12:39] Alex: it,
right, exactly. And so, so these things are, are, are much more subtle and hard to recognize and often really hard to measure, which is why,the narrative in industry has become all friction is bad, let's remove it. And then you end up with a fire hose like TikTok, which just blasts funny clips into your eyeballs and you're like a hamster, in
[00:12:58] Troy: Yeah. You don't need a cork for wine, do you, Alex?
[00:13:01] Alex: No, no, no, that's right. Screw tops.
[00:13:03] Troy: Screw chops are better.
[00:13:05] Brian: But no, I think that's a great point. And because a lot of times these things come down to friction bad, or friction good. But usually it's friction bad. in fact it's the subtlety of friction cuz who would possibly be against removing friction?
yeah, we all hate, friction, but it, like speed bumps. who likes coming onto a road where there's a bunch of speed bumps,
[00:13:21] Alex: don't you think that media also has created a world where it's made the wanted friction and unwanted friction indiscernible like shoving ads in between stuff Tabula, it's all saying Hey, these mechanisms for reading and browsing and discovering stuff, we're going to load it up with ads so that you hate it so much.
So that removing it feels good.
[00:13:41] Brian: I don't wanna say it's a victimless crime, but you know, there,
[00:13:47] Alex: I mean we're all like guilty here. I'm not. I'm just
[00:13:49] Troy: Alex, have you ever introduced friction into a smooth process that you, that you've been in charge of?
[00:13:55] Alex: Yeah,
[00:13:55] Troy: can? Do you have an example of that?
[00:13:56] Alex: and I can only speak for what we were looking at when I was there, at Airbnb there were definitely examples of things taking a little bit longer just so that you can communicate what was going on. if some sort of transaction went through, and you wanted to make sure that the people understood what happened, you might make that whole process feel a little bit longer.
so that they understood, oh, my card went through it, it did that, check, check, check. And I, I feel better about it rather than speeding it up and making it instantaneous, which is the way it could be.
[00:14:22] Troy: Isn't that just to upsell you on cleaning services and insurance.
[00:14:25] Alex: oh man, I knew it. no. But, but also like the way, you browse, you can optimize thing for conversion.
And I think when you're dealing with something like Airbnb, you don't want to force the fastest conversion, but the one that will lead to the least amount of misunderstanding, there might have been data points saying, well, we should push people to convert quicker rather than have them browse the photos for so long.
But, the instinct was, and I think data showed it that time spent looking at pictures, the more likely they were going to be happy with what they got.
[00:14:53] Troy: Do you guys still listen to full records?
[00:14:55] Alex: I do, I just did. You don't,
music?
[00:14:58] Brian: Yeah, I like music. You can like music and not listen to full records.
[00:15:04] Troy: you do, you
just listen to hits.
[00:15:06] Brian: I listen to Spotify, I listen to playlists. I don't know.
[00:15:09] Troy: Hmm.
[00:15:09] Brian: look, again, like I'm not pro friction,I don't like friction in, in my everyday life. I mean, New York City, for instance, is filled with friction. there's way more friction here just than a day-to-day basis than there is anywhere else that I've ever been in the world.
It's hard to do a lot of things in New York
[00:15:24] Troy: Okay. Well let's, let's look at that. That's interesting. Is there more friction here than there is in say, Miami?
[00:15:28] Brian: Definitely.
[00:15:29] Troy: Can you explain where you find that friction?
[00:15:31] Brian: New York is completely chaotic getting things done is really difficult here. I mean, you see it all the time, just on a business level, doing anything as a business in New York is way more difficult than it is in other places. it just is, New York is the only place that will sell $20 cocktails and not take, credit cards.
it's just what. what year is this? A lot of the stuff here. I mean, I'm shocked that we, you can get on the subway now with your phone. I'm really amazed and I,
[00:15:57] Troy: That's a good product. I, like, I like that. That's, that's a big improvement right.
[00:16:01] Brian: that is, it is a major improvement. if you think about somewhere like Tokyo,
I think the only thing I miss from my last job is the fact that I had to go in quotes to Japan at least once a year they have removed friction from everyday life, to such an amazing degree and it's really? Liberating coming from a place with tons of friction to go there.
But at the same time, the downside of it that you end up appreciating is removing friction. It gets boring, it gets all very automated. And I feel like a lot of media as it's been combined with technology, there's this feeling that a lot of it, even though we have more and more of it, I know Alex, you're, you're gonna disagree, is that there is this, because of the obsession with optimization and removing friction is that a lot of the experiences feel the same, I don't think that that is a coincidence cuz I feel like technology has, gone from being an enabler to being the driver of everything in culture and society and everything. And I don't necessarily know if that's making things better or not.
[00:16:58] Alex: what do you mean exactly?
everything being the same, you mean the way things work or?
[00:17:02] Brian: Yeah, so like technology in general as it invades places, every sort of area of life, quickly, optimization takes over, And so you optimize to the best outcomes. when you end up doing this optimization, everyone's data sets are looking fairly similar, and so everyone gets at the same place individually, And
[00:17:22] Troy: Yeah, but those are, are those superficial things though, Brian? Because, maybe a long time ago we thought that coming up with funky interfaces to media on a website or the way a panel moved outover top of the content or the way we presented or juxtapose information together.
there was a lot more variation there, but it didn't actually mean anything. we optimized it out, inside of, social content consumption interfaces because really just the content mattered. I wonder if, that elimination of what we're thinking of is, is friction was just getting rid of unnecessary shit, whereas, maybe one could argue that design was a victim of optimization.
one of the great things about magazines was the way that you use type and imagery and text to create a feeling. And, that is still, a little bit of a thing on the web, but less and less so I would say like all of those experiments that were part of introducing design into content in aggressive ways didn't really pay off.
They got optimized out of the system.
[00:18:26] Alex: Yeah,
[00:18:26] Brian: is, I, mean, is that a good thing?
[00:18:28] Alex: doesn't bother me.
of thoughts. Can I unpack it?
[00:18:30] Brian: Unpack.
[00:18:31] Alex: I think there's a few things happening here. when we're talking about, everything being the same, I think there's a definitely a group think around a philosophy in tech.
that is everything that can be optimized should be. the real issue there is with that is that, people like to optimize things, want to also measure those things, and measuring means that things become much more short term. So you start looking at things in much shorter terms because you cannot measure things over months and years even.
You can only measure things over weeks, especially when you're moving at any type of velocity, which means you, you're gonna optimize out things that are actually. Pretty useful even to your business, I gave examples where maybe you might reduce support tickets or cancellations or the way people feel about your brand,
And what's happened in tech is removing is bad. Optimization is good. Let's just go full on and put a bunch of product managers each on their little realm that they can optimize the hell out of, . And you've built really successful business out of that, that have absolutely no soul.
but work can friction be used, Friction sometimes. I would call it like a packaging we were talking about the album, The format, the long form article, You package something and you add this friction, but it's to the extent that you want to create a package that delivers something,
Because you have a vision for an entire album, not just a song, for example, or Beyonce dropping a, 45 minute video album. then there's all this feeling stuff in friction, which is like how you feel about the brand, the art. We definitely added animations and little flourishes in places that added, good friction because we felt it helped the brand or storytelling, storytelling is friction. I don't want to see succession and say, here's what happens at the end of succession. It could be a single line of text, But you want to go through the ups and downs of experiencing this. And then the, the last part is, process. So, the packaging, the feeling and the process stuff.
The process stuff is usually good. You remove steps, you take out stuff that is too complicated. you used to have to enter an email and a password, and now you just have to enter a phone number, yada, yada. That type of stuff is all good. but I don't know if you guys listen to the, all in podcast.
[00:20:30] Brian: I hate listening to it every week. I did. Now I, I've started, I've started to listen to it. You
guys
[00:20:34] Alex: They were, well, I mean, it's an important podcast, right? Because people listen to them. But the, the thing that I noticed last episode, they talked about media and art and creativity a lot. This literal, like glee to the idea that creative people would be taking out of the process.
And in the future when I want to play a game, I'll just ask an ai, Make me a game that does this. And the AI thinking that culture will become entirely created on the fly for you individually and so this just told me one thing, and I texted you guys about it, that none of these guys have any art in their souls whatsoever.
They don't understand the idea of narrative and storytelling and the fact is, We consume art, which is a very friction, full experience usually, because we want the shared experience of experiencing something together, and we want to understand that it comes from another person that is telling that story.
And I very much doubt that will be replaced, Who wants to go in and say, Hey, tell me a story that goes like this. And like that, you're just telling yourself your own story rather than being excited about somebody else's creative process.
[00:21:34] Troy: it's a really good point, and I feel like I could have spent a lot more time on it, Alex. this is in a front, apparently to the editor that wants to cut my story back. But the, fact is people don't care. I don't want a bunch of design crap all over a piece of content that I'm reading.
They don't, I don't care. Most people don't care. The album. Most people don't want to put an album on a record player, which is a tremendously friction filled process, They don't care to stare at the album art, they just want to hear the playlist like Brian does. They want it straight to the vein. I think that, our society's pretty good at giving people options.
I still buy vinyl. I like the process, blah, blah, blah. I like going to find it, all that kind of stuff, which isn't to me really about friction or not friction. It's about a different path, I don't consider going to the record store friction filled experience, although one could say it's far more frictiony than, than just listening to the songs on and discovering the songs on Spotify.
I consider it a, a nice way to use time.
[00:22:30] Alex: Friction has to be earned. I don't remember what the Beyonce thing was, but she dropped in 40 minute video or something. lemonade. That's it. and she earned the attention, And so you listened to this thing, which wasn't
[00:22:42] Troy: I have the album on vinyl. It's yellow.
[00:22:45] Alex: it could have been just a song dropped on Spotify and that's, whatever.
But I think you need to just earn that type of attention, that type of friction. And, it's actually really, present in my life as I'm working on video games, because video games are about how can we earn that friction, when your character dies or when you try to do something, how do you make that fun?
How do you make something hard fun? Which is way harder than building an app, by the way. because you're, you're trying to apply friction in a way that is entertaining and,
[00:23:11] Troy: Well, are you trying to apply friction or are you trying to create a narrative?
[00:23:14] Alex: It's both because gameplay, like I would say,watching the last of us, there's painful things in the last of us that you wish wouldn't happen, but still happen, it's a question. The writers are so good that they earn that, friction in the storytelling in video game, in gameplay.
it's about mastery, It's about creating a system that is hard enough to play so that peak pole become better at it and feel good when they solve it. now you can tell a story through that and we definitely are. but I think feeling these types of feelings are much harder for folks to understand sometimes.
and it's much easier to say, let's just remove all the friction. but I don't think anything good ever had no friction.
[00:23:49] Brian: Yeah, and it's also, it's a short term thing, in the short term, nobody likes friction. We're all impatient, and I think we're even more impatient than we've ever been, I think about binging. I feel like people talk about binging less than they used to. to me, binging was always stupid.
It was weird. I
[00:24:03] Troy: I love
[00:24:03] Brian: I'm an adult,
I
[00:24:04] Troy: don't know what you're talking about.
I just binged, beef.
I
did six episodes in
[00:24:08] Brian: being
an adult means you can wait a week for her show.
[00:24:10] Troy: No, that's not true.
[00:24:12] Brian: Yes it is, I'm a grown man. I can wait a week to watch succession.
[00:24:16] Alex: hang on. You're both wrong and right. Netflix has been looking at releasing, shows on a weekly cadence because of the basic gives for conversation between episodes.
I mean, succession is an example of that where it creates Excitement around the episode, narrative around it and makes it, makes people wanna watch the next episode more. Part of the bridging issue is also maybe likely linked to people dropping off Netflix series so quickly because they get too much of it and then they're done with it and then it falls off,
so this is where like some frictionless stuff will be reviewed, I think it's not all good. And over time they might notice that it wasn't the right call.
[00:24:52] Brian: Yeah, like personalization. I think personalization as done with media oftentimes is terrible it sacrifices
[00:24:59] Alex: good or is it because it exists?
[00:25:01] Brian: Well, because it sacrifices serendipity
for,
[00:25:04] Troy: the wrong personalization.
[00:25:05] Brian: Okay. It's not okay. So personalization, as it is done often is, to me it's antithetical to serendipity. And you lose something in the media experience.
I know in the, in the short term, everyone just wants it now, wants it immediately And I get that. And, and technology is great for flattening all of that and speeding it up.
[00:25:22] Troy: My issue with personalization is I find it creepy because TikTok thinks they know what I want. they think right now that I'm really into pimple popping. And there I fell into that segment because I probably spent too much time on a couple of those really good ones. And now
[00:25:38] Brian: I don't know what you're talking about and I'm.
[00:25:40] Alex: Jesus dear. Don't even look it up. It's
one of those things I can't even talk about it. It makes me queasy.
[00:25:46] Troy: There was a ad for that that Dr. Pimple Popper on the basketball game last night. Did you see that? The guy walks in with all the CSTs on his head. Everybody in my family recoiled. I was just like, I wanna see the ending.
[00:25:56] Alex: Yeah,
[00:25:57] Brian: I don't know, Dr. Pimple Popper.
[00:25:59] Troy: It's one of the, flagship shows on discovery that's now part of Max
and Will sit along. Yeah, it's right next. It's what you watch after succession.
[00:26:08] Brian: Okay,
[00:26:09] Troy: speaking of which, there's a lot of friction on succession. It's building right now between the children.
[00:26:14] Alex: Oh yeah.
[00:26:14] Brian: Oh, that kind of friction. I thought you
[00:26:15] Alex: This is not him.
back to recommendations. the perfect recommendation system because in my last job, we talked about recommendation a lot, imagine you land on Airbnb is the ideal getting one house that is perfectly for you, it knows Troy. So the decor is a certain way and it's got an expensive candle, staff quarters. and, a foot
massager,
[00:26:36] Troy: machines big
[00:26:37] Alex: coffee machines, just like,just a row of espresso machines or is the perfect search result, 20 homes that are different that get you thinking and inspired?
Oh, I didn't, never thought I would want to stay in a hasta, but that sounds nice. and I, I always thought that it's the latter, right? It's giving you a smaller set because the big set is so there's just too much there. But giving you a smaller set that gets you to think slightly differently.
how about this? Like, why don't you try this out, for a change? I think algorithms could be able to do that. And I think when they work well, they do, don't
[00:27:08] Troy: Yeah. I do, I do. I listen, I think that the TikTok algorithm is remarkable. I just have found as of late that it's been being a little aggressive in how it's segmenting me. we'll, we'll be
looking. Well, the thing is, is that the perfect recommendation algorithm is in some ways as elusive as, human nature I don't know what I, I don't even
know what I want next, Alex.
So how is
it supposed to figure that
[00:27:30] Alex: you know, what I'm shocked about is how bad the YouTube algorithm remains. It's literally like somebody sends me a link an ad about this like electric drill, That we might want to buy or whatever.
And then like nearly instantly, the next five videos on my four you feed are just like electric drill based. It feels like YouTube's algorithm is terrible, but it must be performing otherwise that's this thing, is that what people want? Right now I'm into, mechanical keyboards, so all my feet, because mechanical keyboard, all my other pastimes have disappeared.
[00:28:00] Troy: Hm.
[00:28:01] Brian: Subs is doing an interesting with the, the notes product that's just Twitter, like for their algorithm, they have a for you type algorithm, but it's, it's based on the recommendations of the people you subscribe. basically the publications that they recommend are the ones that you're then shown.
So it's not like a black box algorithm, but it's based
off of a bunch of humans saying, I like this thing.
[00:28:25] Troy: you know what my reaction to that is, is it's a little broader and I would say, see what always happens when you have a successful, application is the product team. Driven by the business needs, looks to expand in different directions, to take up more of your time or more of your money, or whatever it is.
So you get, new features like notes on I find it highly irritating in the case of ck, I love CK as a place to create emails. And I think that some things that contribute to that experience in a nice way. Like the recommendations were nice. Now we have on CK we have chat, we have notes and we
have your e now I don't even know what to do in there anymore.
It's like too complex. It's too much. I just wanna send out an email. And then, you know what else bugs me? Is that I don't want to do the hustle.
[00:29:15] Brian: we've moved into the Andy Rooney phase of this
[00:29:18] Troy: No, but it's if people wanna read the newsletter, read it. If you don't want to read it, don't read it. I don't want to get into this kind of like distribution hustle.
you sent me a
[00:29:26] Brian: wow. That's
[00:29:27] Troy: and you said,
[00:29:28] Brian: the worst part.
[00:29:29] Troy: you said, oh, you gotta get on notes. I picked up a bunch of subscriptions, get over there, hustle,
hustle,
[00:29:34] Brian: Please. I try to cultivate an image of not being sweaty.
[00:29:42] Troy: well, so, but I don't want to go in
there and do the hustle. Not only that, I'm not clever enough to figure out how to write a sentence. That's funny enough that
people care.
[00:29:50] Brian: No. Well, I
think notes is, I
look, look, I think I'm good at that kind of short form,
[00:29:54] Troy: You're the be, you're great at it. You're really good at it. What was your famous
one this year? Newark is the new JFK or something like
[00:30:02] Brian: not a skill, it's an affliction.
[00:30:04] Alex: but, but hang, Okay. A couple of things. on TCK specifically having chat and notes on the same product makes no sense. I don't understand there's too much overlap between these two products. speaking of
friction, this is one of the worst, this is one of the worst frictions, is when you have two tools that do similar things and trying to decide where you're gonna put, your effort into.
So it's really important in products to have everything do so. Very different. Instagram suffers from a very similar problem. It's I don't fucking know if it's a, a story, a, a poster real, or, they should absolutely kill Chad. I don't
understand why it's there and, and
[00:30:40] Troy: knives.
[00:30:41] Alex: correct.
but imagine a Swiss army now where like it has four blades and they all do the same thing, pretty much. And I understand that chat does different things to notes. that being said, though, I think newsletters suffer from discovery issues and, notes is actually a really good, tool for discovery.
number one and two, and we've built tools like that before Troy. And, and the verges redesign was around that. Sometimes you wanna write something that is too small for the newsletter or you wanna write a follow up or you wanna update. Your audience. and I think that, considering where Twitter's going, having a much more curated smaller feed like that is, potentially useful.
[00:31:17] Brian: I'm interested in like also when you decide to add friction, cuz I think you, you sort of got at this, but the reason you add friction is also important, too many times friction is added mostly to support a business model, I think about in media, the frictions that are beyond like advertising.
Think about subscriptions you know it's gonna be outlawed. Now all the, anyone who wants to cut down their churn in subscriptions, the first thing you do is you, add friction. and the friction can be, you add a third screen to the cancel you, move the button around.
or if you're the Wall Street Journal, you force people to call between nine and five you know, you make them run the Saves team gauntlet and everyone goes to these, because again, it works. the numbers tell you a lot of times to remove friction, like 100%. But I think it's, it's always,
[00:32:05] Alex: In the short term, it's
all short term
[00:32:07] Brian: it works without a
[00:32:08] Alex: Yes. and the problem is with these types of things like trying to unsubscribe, or disconnect yourself from Comcast and stuff like that, unless you are a monopoly, Where you know, they don't give a fuck. the problem is how people feel about your brand takes a lot longer to show up than how people feel about this removed friction.
and the metrics are usually like, oh, less people canceled their subscription equals good. then 10 years later, everybody hates your brand.
[00:32:32] Brian: I mean it's like sort of like, sort of hackneyed now, but going back to when Zappos sort of took off, I mean, Tony Shay recognized that customer service didn't have to just be a cost center to be optimized into oblivion, but could actually serve the brand, And so they famously had someone who was on, I would never want to talk to a customer service person for six hours, but apparently they did.
you know, it was a big cost and they, most people were outsourcing customer service and Zappos moved the whole company to Vegas in, in order to be able to have, I think maybe Tony liked to go out in Vegas too, but in order to, be able to have customer service within the United States instead of, at the time everyone was just outsourcing.
This was. send it over to Tato, whoever runs massive
[00:33:11] Alex: Yeah,
[00:33:12] Brian: in India.
[00:33:12] Alex: I think that's true. The problem is that even though we have all these examples, including, Zappos, I would say the vast majority of product managers are not calibrated to do that. They used to say, friction bad, let's remove friction, put it into an test. If a test does more money, then it stays on the product.
There's very little intentional design and not, I'm not talking about the graphics here. I'm talking about the intentional design of products that people use every day. It's gone because it's way easier
[00:33:40] Troy: So,
[00:33:40] Alex: thing.
[00:33:41] Troy: Alex, for the audience, O'Brien, how, how do you make the case for friction? Make a case for.
[00:33:46] Brian: This is the problem. It's like friction
is, it's, it's really difficult to
[00:33:49] Troy: no.
[00:33:49] Brian: case for friction.
[00:33:50] Troy: Well, I mean, and let's try to separate that case from just design decisions or, helping to build a narrative, make a case for friction in some way that I'm gonna feel, like I understand how to build it into my business or my design process or anything.
Alex, you got a bunch of young people that are optimizing the shit out of a design and you're, you come in as this kind of, bearded kind of guru and you say, Hey guys, have you thought about friction? what are you telling them? Alex milks.
[00:34:19] Alex: I don't know if I would even use the word friction. I would start at a place where, how do we want people to feel about. The product when they're using it in about us longer term. and you go through an exercise and you come up with kind of a vocabulary.
I want 'em to feel like they trust us. I want 'em to feel excited. I want 'em to feel this and that. And then you look at what could, be added into the flow to make that happen. And some of those are frictions. but I try to remove the idea of friction out of the vocabulary because it just sounds bad, people want to remove it.
and so I, I would say that, that's what I would do. don't, don't talk about it as friction. Just talk about it as an experience of
[00:34:55] Brian: but this is going back to what you said, like last week. I think it was the one last week. you know, it's like, what are we trying to do here? and then working backwards from there versus nobody's gonna make the case for friction, but for example, I started Dig, we didn't have our domain name.
It was called dig a daily.com and March X was squatting on it and one in $40,000 and didn't have $40,000. We published once a day at midnight, like a newspaper for a reason. And it was mostly because the domain name was daily but the other reason was we wanted to optimize to differentiation and said the Bluntest way was telling reporters good news, bad news.
Good news is, unlike Mashable or IB Times, you have all day to do just one story versus four or five. The bad news is you have all day and it won't be published until midnight. So you can't just rewrite the same thing that everyone's talking about on the internet because it's gonna be completely old.
I don't know if that's constraint friction or whatever, but it was artificial and it was created in order to lead to a desired.
[00:35:51] Alex: yeah, I mean, I think you just built what you wanted to build. and I think that's important. I don't know if I was telling you Troy this, but this conversation that I have, sometimes with folks, in software design is just like, why can't we just make something good?
And then, eh, nine out of 10 times somebody will say, but what is good? How do you know what good is? And that's when you know, well, we might have a problem here, because that's the whole job knowing what good is or figuring it out or, working your way towards something.
That's great. That question always scares the shit out of me
[00:36:19] Brian: Well, cuz you have to take
a stance, right? You like
[00:36:21] Alex: You have to take. Exactly. And it, it either shows like a lack of intuition and or a lack of courage to take the stance. both of those things could be structural. Like the company might not give people the freedom to take these stances, but whatever the case, I think courage and intuition is everything because otherwise I can give an ai, a spreadsheet with some numbers going up or down and say, push the thing live that has a green number on it.
That's easy. Everybody can do that.
[00:36:46] Brian: Are we finished on friction? I wanna, do a little like this week in ai.
[00:36:49] Alex: we can do ai.
[00:36:51] Brian: All right.
[00:36:52] Alex: Troy, are we, I mean, this was your
topic, Troy.
[00:36:54] Troy: I'm glad we had it. I think that, the listeners I often hear back, people like to sort of, turn you into a caricature seem to
[00:37:02] Brian: We all, we
[00:37:02] Troy: between.
[00:37:03] Brian: ourselves though. Come on.
[00:37:04] Troy: I know, but they like the friction between you and I, Brian. they want us to do they want more of it.
I, I'm not saying there is
[00:37:11] Brian: Do you
[00:37:11] Troy: Yeah. People like,
[00:37:12] Alex: It's like a, it's like a Tom Greg situation, I think.
[00:37:15] Troy: yeah.
[00:37:16] Brian: who I am.
[00:37:20] Alex: I
mean, nobody comes off great in that.
[00:37:22] Troy: I think friction is wonderful when it gives you space to consider other options and to think and to let new ideas. if I could advocate for friction, it would be that, it would be how do you find places that disrupt a process that might otherwise be highly efficient? So there's serendipity and unexpected things that enter, in ways that, we, we may not have, envisioned early in a process that makes something feel more human or more surprising.
You know, in some ways the case for friction is surprise.
[00:37:54] Brian: Yeah,
[00:37:54] Troy: and I would hate to have the world engineered by, optimizers and they remove that kind of poetry of life. I'd say the worst example of friction is probably, the cookie buttons on websites
that are just useless.
Oh, fuck, I hate it. Yes, it's
useless. Yeah. I mean, it really is literally just a. Complete waste of time so I
hope that it,
[00:38:17] Alex: blight on websites.
[00:38:18] Troy: yes, thank you. Anyway, I know that I've got that off my chest. Brian. I'm happy to move to AI Corner, although I really do wanna bring in Gen Z corner again. I know you guys think it was purely nepotistic, just to get my son a little of the airwaves.
But, I really do think that, that generation thinks differently than, we do.
[00:38:37] Brian: That's by definition, every generation thinks differently, But then they grow
up and then they become very much like the previous generations. Remember when the millennials weren't gonna own anything? Guess who's owning a lot of shit right now?
[00:38:47] Troy: Well, but my son said, dad, we think differently. This is where I wanna live. And he showed me a shack in the forest and then my millennial daughter says, no, dad, this is where I wanna live. And it's like a McMansion. They're
[00:39:00] Brian: Yeah.
[00:39:00] Troy: children.
[00:39:01] Brian: Nothing
[00:39:01] Troy: one works at a hedge fund,
[00:39:03] Alex: will have a Gen Z corner. we're gonna do dial-ins,
but let's do it. Okay.
we need a jingle.
[00:39:09] Brian: you, had shared a list of various ai, I mean, the agent stuff is the stuff that I started going down a rabbit hole, but I was very intrigued by something that you shared, Karen ai, which apparently will go and do like arguments and, demand to talk to a manager on your behalf.
[00:39:25] Troy: And threatened to use a pistol.
[00:39:27] Brian: It would be funny if Karen AI ends up ending us. That would be a weird
twist.
[00:39:31] Alex: here's an interesting, exercise as well. you can, create your own little agents. Now, know, a good friend, friend of the show. Elliot was, teaching me how he uses, chat g p t, and having just the, discipline of creating, different conversations for different topics and then prompting, chap, j p t to, behave in certain ways so you can create your kind of your own agent.
I'm educating right now a writer. That will write stuff for me. I'll tell it. Your designer named Alex schleifer you into this, this and that, da da da da, da. Here's the things you can do. Here's the, here's here's your tone of voice, blah, blah, blah. And then I'll, end a sentence with a, please answer red if you understand.
And then the, I will just say red and I'll just keep adding stuff like that. And you can use that to create,I have a writer bot. I'm creating a, image generation bot, which creates like really beautifully syntax prompts for image generation, trip planner, bot, all these types of things.
And so I'll have all of these reorganized in chats around
[00:40:27] Troy: Hey. Oh, I love this. Alex, could we have Elliot come on the show and talk about this?
[00:40:31] Brian: Yeah.
[00:40:32] Troy: have him in one of the future episodes. he, he'd be great.
[00:40:35] Brian: last name?
[00:40:36] Alex: Garcia Weisberg.
[00:40:37] Brian: Hmm. That's long. That'll be tough for, it reminds me of like,Dan Smith will teach you guitar. Remember those in New York?
[00:40:42] Troy: No. Do we just use the first name? Elliot will teach you
[00:40:45] Brian: Elliot will teach you chat. G p t. He, we could, we could make flyers and put it all around New
[00:40:49] Alex: I know Elliot, he's like a digital handyman.
and it's this idea of using the training models in contained ways so you can have them do very specific things rather than keeping them completely generalized. One AI that I want to build is like a recipe AI that understands how I cook, and understands the things I like.
you take that a little bit further. you're only doing this in the chat G P T interface, and this is still u not using any plugins, et cetera. but you take that a little bit further and you can use AI and agents for all sorts of things. going out on the internet and trying to solve things for you, managing your, it's imminent that there's some AI that will manage your entire life
[00:41:24] Troy: a, Alex, I'd like to
find out. I'd like to, I like this, this recipe thing where you're gonna do escargo and schnitzel
to, to bring together your
Austrian and French
[00:41:35] Brian: Laron.
[00:41:36] Alex: di will hopefully
know me better than you.
[00:41:37] Troy: I've been trying to get consistency out of my little bear queries in mid journey, and so I use seeds to do that, but I'm finding the parameters are really hard to get your arms around and I stylistically the thing moves all over the place and so,
[00:41:55] Brian: Wait, is that the one in I'm using the one in Discord. Is that the one in Discord? I can't stand
[00:42:00] Troy: I use it in Discord. yeah.
yeah.
[00:42:01] Alex: yeah.
[00:42:02] Brian: hell are seeds?
[00:42:03] Alex: so mid journey is, is image generation and, requires, specific type of prompts. Brian, you use it in Discord. If you pay for it, you can use it in a bunch of other ways, including your own Discord. We have it integrated into our Discord, so we can image gen whenever we are having a conversation, around the studio.
here's what you can do with chat G p T. You could train your chat g p t to generate incredible prompts for you. So Troy, with the right conversation, you create a new chat and you create a, right conversation. You give it very specific prompts, which we can help you get. and then what you will have is a, chat g p t conversation that is ready and primed for you to create newsletter.
Bears
[00:42:43] Troy: what software do I use to do that? Can I do that
[00:42:45] Alex: you know, it's, Yeah. Yeah. It's all the same software. It's just using it,
[00:42:49] Troy: no? Is it someone that's using their api or do I just do
[00:42:52] Alex: no, no, no, it's all in chat. G p t. You're just using the bare, bare functionality of chat g p T. Yes. And so you train your ai, to write really good prompts If you do that Troy, you will be able to just tell the ai, make me a newsletter bear, that holds a ball or whatever.
and it will pretty much like first time round create you the perfect prompt for that. That will do it in your style.
[00:43:13] Troy: Can, can I also do something that moves that prompt over to Discord, Alex, with the ais because, or do I have to cut and paste it?
[00:43:20] Alex: Oh, Jesus. That's a friction right there.
[00:43:23] Brian: pasting
is a lot.
[00:43:25] Alex: you could build this all with the APIs. I think right now it's useful to you just use the tools and use, learn how to use them. but yeah, there's, there's a lot of tools being built that, these processes, including, I wanted to talk about the new Adobe tool, Firefly.
And now there's also a plugin that introduces mid journey straight into Photoshop. And not only that is that it let you image gen, but then it lets you select areas and have the image generator like expanded or change it. It's fucking
[00:43:53] Troy: you guys have been waiting your whole life for that. That's incredible. I mean, I say you guys because I'm not a big user of Photoshop, but I used to and that's incredible.
[00:44:01] Alex: guys, I work with a lot of really talented artists. And there's an equal sense of excitement and worry, because there are people like so excited about the fact that creatives will no longer need to exist. but what I was telling the team today is let's look at this in a way that can allow us to tell stories,
Universal entities tagline or whatever is we're tell interesting stories with computers. and so what, what can we do? We can do work at a bigger scale with a smaller team. So a lot of stuff that is really painful, like generating a bunch of assets that would usually not be fun for everyone.
You can maybe automate. but we can also probably tell different types of stories and make different types of games using agents, So imagine if a character in a game is programmed as an agent with his own motivations within the boundaries of a system. these then become really. interesting game mechanics and, all of our games happen in a single world, in a single universe.
And what I'm doing there is I'm creating a whole kind of download of our lore for our world that I'm, building into a interconnected document, like a wiki. and we're going to make an AI ingest that create a discord channel so that anybody working on a game says, what was the name of the scientist in this thing?
Or When did this thing happen? Or, tell me more about this thing. And the AI should be able to tell the stories of our game, pretty readily, which is huge because even companies like Marvel and Disney have a tons of issues like managing the lore and
[00:45:24] Troy: That's incredible that so, so AI becomes the scaffolding for your whole game narrative, and now anybody can access it and it's going to, it's gonna give, the parameters of the story and the characters and all of that to everybody to ensure that you're all working together.
[00:45:41] Alex: Yeah. Yeah. and then potentially that would also move into the game so that characters in the game have the context of the world that they exist in, which is shit, man, it changes a lot. and I'm trying to focus on what new things we can do rather than, worrying about, all the ways it's going to replace us.
And, and that's not to diminish the fact that
a lot of these models
[00:46:02] Brian: place. I just want to pipe up from the cubicle here. I mean, I can understand it cuz even if you're an A player, I think the concern is that it's gonna make a C player be able to be an A player. there's way more C players than a players.
And so even if you're an A player, you probably end up being very, wary of all this stuff.
[00:46:19] Alex: I don't like grading people, but every time a new technology comes out, it, either replaces you or makes you better. So you gotta work hard, typography didn't disappear and now we have a billion fonts instead of the four,
Or when we went from the letter press into computing, I always think that it'll change a lot of things for people, but hopefully if you focus more on how can it augment you, then you'll have a better time. But caveat, One of the major issues is a lot of these models are trained on people's work that they haven't been paid for.
So I will, that remains a major issue. that is really shitty. because there's a lot of people like Friedberg on the All-In Podcast saying, it's amazing. You won't even need an artist. Well, you've needed artists and all of this stuff is based on old stuff.
[00:47:01] Troy: Yeah, but what, what you get
paid for is shifts. I, I don't think we can spend too much time on that. You know what, like Roman is a brilliant character. AI's not gonna create Roman. And someone's gonna have to make a bunch of decisions around that. People will get paid, but new, new things get paid for old things disappear.
[00:47:17] Alex: Sure,
the transition doesn't have to be painful.
[00:47:20] Troy: I
feel like Alex
hijacked
your AI corner and I feel like you wanted to talk about care and AI
[00:47:26] Brian: No, no, no. I didn't wanna talk about it. I just wanted to, I wanted to fence off some AI talk, new AI tools and stuff. It's fine. We'll work on it. Let's go into good product,
[00:47:35] Good Product
[00:47:38] Alex: Well, I have a good product and it's very simple.
is it Karen Ai
[00:47:42] Troy: it's been harvested for thousands of years. it's spread from the Middle East. it's, good dried and not dried, and it's rich and no, that's a good product too. But it's a fig.
[00:47:53] Brian: Oh.
[00:47:54] Troy: So fig. I think figs are, are just extraordinary.
I love fresh figs. I love dried figs. I like figs and salad. I like figs with chicken. I like figs in a sauce. I like figs as an afternoon snack. That's a little pick-me-up with a bit of sugar in it. I think that figs are, beautiful in their deep purpleness and their, consistency.
I like the little seeds that pop in your teeth. there's nothing wrong with a fig, so is some
moment
to
[00:48:19] Brian: need to talk about good product. I, this is just the food stuff.
[00:48:23] Troy: I hadn't done food in a while, Brian.
[00:48:25] Brian: Okay. I got a different one cuz it came up
[00:48:27] Troy: Well, but last week, I mean, in, in fairness last week it was a monitor, I thought was very of
[00:48:33] Brian: I feel like it needs to
be
something mechanical to
degree.
[00:48:37] Troy: it needs to be what? So let's talk about it and let's let the audience
[00:48:40] Brian: needs to be mechanical to some degree. It needs to be created by human ingenuity.
[00:48:45] Troy: Okay, so look, fuck the fig, what do you got?
Wait, did, did you wait? you can't talk about figs and you own it. Every time you're eating a fig, you're eating a wasp. Is that true?
[00:48:53] Alex: That's how they get pollinated. So, female fig wasp enters the fig through a small opening, and then it lays her eggs, and then fig wasp must navigate the tight space within the fig. she loses her wings and antenna, and
[00:49:05] Brian:
[00:49:05] Alex: she pollinates the flowers by spreading pollen, and she, and then
she keeps going.
[00:49:10] Troy: and then what happens? Do I, am I eating her carcass?
[00:49:12] Alex: I mean, everything's
[00:49:13] Brian: oh my God.
[00:49:14] Alex: everything, so
[00:49:15] Brian: Don't tell DeSantis.
[00:49:17] Alex: Don't
[00:49:22] Troy: Okay. All right, so the figs didn't actually work out that badly. Brian, what do you, what do you got?
[00:49:26] Brian: I really like a mocha pot. Do you guys have mocha pot?
[00:49:29] Alex: What's a
[00:49:29] Brian: You know, there's like a million ways to make coffee, like a million ways. Like my, my wife uses a je, I mean, they were using JE in the 12th century in Istanbul,
Constantinople, I guess.
And
[00:49:40] Troy: pots you put right on the stove?
[00:49:42] Brian: yeah, the steel pot. Well, so the JE is literally, it's just like a pot and you just pour the grounds and it's like really old school, but the Mochas is from Italy, have you ever seen these things?
It's got a little filter on to, on top of it, and then it, the pressure pushes the water up through the grounds And you have, when it's bubbling, it's finished. it's a very pleasing way to make coffee. I find
[00:50:03] Alex: It's got
some
[00:50:04] Troy: Hmm.
[00:50:04] Alex: it's pretty good. I think
[00:50:05] Brian: there's a ton of friction.
It takes three minutes to make
[00:50:08] Alex: on the opposite spectrum of that. I have a fully automated espresso machine where I just press a button and that thing will just shoot out a delicious espresso with CRE on top of it. I bought it for the office thinking I would get,a more manual setup for the house.
But then every morning I just press a button now and, I'm lazy.
[00:50:26] Troy: Here's George Jetson. I sit right in the middle I actually have a, a, a couple of these, sort of heavy Italian machines. the one I actually was, gifted to me, this is the favored at this point. It's a Mar SoCo they're manual. They're, they're the machines like you see in the coffee shops,espresso machine, double boiler, foam water, blah, blah,
blah.
Great, awesome.
[00:50:47] Brian: It's not a product.
[00:50:48] Troy: No, it. It's a, it's heavy metal. It's a big product. It's a great
product. I love it.
[00:50:52] Brian: Yeah, but
the mocha pot, I like the idea that Italian people were using this like in the 17th century to make coffee and
[00:50:57] Alex: Greek slash Turkish coffee slash Middle Eastern coffee. You just cook it in a pot and then you pour the whole thing with grains and you let it settle.
[00:51:05] Troy: I
had one for lunch today,
Alex. A Greek, Greek, coffee that was filled with sludge at the bottom.
[00:51:10] Brian: yeah,
that's the JE stuff.
[00:51:11] Alex: it's got another purpose. you. The cup around, on its little tray, and then you lift it, I think, and then somebody can read your future from, the patterns that the coffee makes. So it's got a dual use.
[00:51:23] Brian: Oh, interesting. Just makes a mess in our sink, but,
[00:51:26] Outro
[00:51:26] Brian: all right. Should we, uh, leave it there?
[00:51:27] Alex: Yes.
[00:51:28] Brian: Thanks so much for listening. we'll be back next week with a new episode.
[00:51:30] Alex: Well, I, I, spoke too long, apparently. I'm sorry, I ramble. I rambled today.
[00:51:35] Troy: I didn't think it was terrible.
You know what, I think best product while you attack it, or good product. I think it ended up being quite successful.
[00:51:42] Brian: What the fig?
[00:51:43] Troy: Oh, the fig fuck.
[00:51:44] Brian: It's
just a food stuff. I don't else to put it,
[00:51:48] Alex: the world is weird and it's changing. Wait till
AI hits us over the head again. 


PVA S1E33
PVA S1E33
[00:00:00] Brian: I hate when people complain when they haven't watched the show
[00:00:03] Troy: and they expect you not to talk about it.
[00:00:05] Alex: you hate when people complain. You complain about so many things all the time.
[00:00:09] Troy: When
I
don't
[00:00:10] Alex: like right now, like, you're
[00:00:11] Troy: I'm complaining about complainers.
[00:00:13] Alex: well, speaking of complainer, your friend Tucker, was he let go.
[00:00:16] Brian: He was let go. Happens to the best of
us.
[00:00:18] Alex: man. Where are you gonna get your
[00:00:20] Troy: yeah. I don't know.
[00:00:23] Brian: Isn't that the sucky thing? It's like no matter what your fucking job is, you can get fired pretty much.
[00:00:29] Alex:
[00:00:29] Welcome
[00:00:51] Brian: Welcome to People versus Algorithms, a conversation about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Morrisy. I write the Rebooting newsletter and host the Rebooting Show podcast. Each week I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young, writer of the People versus Algorithms Newsletter, and Alex Schleifer, former head of Design at Airbnb and founder of Universal Entities.
Something that's come up in this podcast is we are living a time when an era of publishing is closing. Last week's announcement, the Buzzfeed news would cease to exist again. Brought this point. Home companies like Buzzfeed were seen as the future in the period roughly running from the emergence of the ruins of the financial crisis up until the late 2000 tens.
Buzzfeed's expansion into news in 2012 by hiring Ben Smith, known for his frenetic high metabolism. Blogging at Politico was seen as a watershed moment. The Buzzfeed newsroom was innovative, marrying the mastery of social media distribution. That was the hallmark of buzzfeed. With the serious work of breaking news by 2014, the New York Times Handwringing Innovation report was name checking Buzzfeed 23 times.
And the report's existence itself was first reported by Buzzfeed. And this was a time when Buzzfeed envy was common among top publishing executives that consciously are not mimicked buzzfeed's approaches. I mean, even the New York Times began writing listicles, but Buzzfeed News never. Quite made sense as a business.
It wasn't aligned with how buzzfeed made money and its dependency on the distribution hacks that defined the social media era proved untenable in the long run. This week we discussed what went wrong and look ahead. To how those lessons of this era of publishing can be used in what lies ahead, which hopefully will create more sustainable and stable media businesses, and I might add, uses AI as a tool to make publishing more human and not less so.
This is something we get into in the back half of the episode. As always, send us your feedback. My email is brian@therebooting.com, and also leave us a rating and a review on Apple, Spotify, or wherever you get this podcast. we wanna keep growing the podcast. I mean, it's going in the right direction. also any ideas you have on that front, please share them.
I always say like podcasts are hard to grow, but they do have a deep connection with the audience and, we all really enjoy doing this now onto the conversation.
[00:03:01] Troy: Well, it was quite a day in media though. I, I was overwhelmed by the headlines. Oh my God.
[00:03:06] Brian: I know. Let's get into it.
Let's talk, let's talk about
[00:03:08] Troy: well, no, but I was just like, I, I opened up the Wall Street Journal and I was just like, wow. The top three stories, or four stories are all media related. There was Tucker, there was Don Lemon, there was Steph Schnell, shell, there was Disney Laos.
There was a lot.
[00:03:23] Alex: There's bus feed.
[00:03:24] Brian: Buzzfeed, but we're gonna go backwards to go forwards. because I think we need to talk about Buzzfeed because I think you'll have an interesting perspective in particular, Troy, as you always do. Let's be honest here. but you sort of lived in this, this era and, and we're really knee deep in it.
And I, I think of this era, the Buzzfeed era. I used to call it buzzfeed Envy because so many publishers. It seemed like part of their strategy was being defined by Buzzfeed, and because Buzzfeed was sucking the oxygen out of the room a lot of times, and look, people would d badmouth it, but then they would be following in buzzfeed's footsteps.
And that probably lasted through 2016 when they missed their numbers, but 60 million. They were like, wait, maybe we shouldn't follow this playbook. but first of all, obviously Buzzfeed News, it's bad for everyone who loses jobs and stuff like this. I don't think anyone was very surprised.
It didn't seem to make sense, for the last several years. but what, what was the, what is your takeaway from that era? If it was an era?
[00:04:18] Troy: I think it was an era. I mean, I'd have to start with a couple of thoughts. First is, I think that the, that era, if you want to call it that, was, there's a sort of. The idea that anybody who can create, a little media brand and a website and content is entitled to be in the media business.
And that's not the way it used to be. you had to, either be privileged by, a brand that had been around for a long time or make enormous investments, by starting a publication, many of them failed. or by, setting aside, a lot of money, time and energy like they did with, at Conde, with Portfolio Magazine that ultimately never, made it off the lift pad.
But like being in media, I think that we kind of created this. weird entitlement where we thought we could fund a media business. Anybody could be in the media business you don't need that many people in the business. I just thought I would, would start there.
I have to say that I think so much of what they did, I had at times Buzzfeed Envy because lots of times their execution was really, really good. I mean, setting aside what I think is a kind of flawed brand concept and a bunch of, kind of reckless expansion and stuff, they did a lot of great stuff.
They did great journalism inside of buzzfeed News. They built better platform tech than other people. when everybody wanted social traffic, they kind of led that, that race. they did video really well when it was a kind of nascent capability in digital media. They built a big food site, they brought ambition to it.
They opened up bureaus all over the place. So they did a lot of good stuff. But I guess my more sober take would be that media at its most basic is content and distribution. And if your distribution model is unreliable, your business is gonna be subject to the whims of somebody else's decision making.
And, they tried to turn the notion of social distribution into a virtue. they built all kinds of tech. They could rank stories and, filter that information back to the journalists and it became, Their sort of trade market was built into the name and all that. But then when that stopped working, because it wasn't, something that they could control and it really messed up the business.
And when the distribution side of a business gets, destabilized, it's really hard to manage the rest of the company with any sanity cuz you get in this kind of cycle, of decline. tremendous admiration. Obviously lots and lots of mistakes were made. I think Jonah was an unlikely leader of a company like this.
Whenever I talked to him, I thought, that he was incredibly smart, but he was like this kind of media philosopher and, didn't come from the business side, didn't come from the edit side, but really came from this kind of idea of approaching the intersection of content and technology in a new environment as a kind of.
Virality hacker and just someone who had a very different point of view. And I think that worked really well. I guess it kind of makes me uncomfortable the whole thing because I just look at this long string of pivots and innovation and trying different things and I was just thinking about a buzzfeed, whether it was, just geographic expansion, adding bureaus in, London and Australia and all this stuff, the video expansion, TV production, lifestyle content, really aggressively going after shopping and selling their own products, quizzes.
it just makes you, when you reflect on it, realize. While the sort of aperture was wide open for anybody that wanted to experiment in media and build a media business, it was also pretty harrowing. there was very, very little stability and you were kind of only as good as your latest trick.
obviously there was an opportunity to sell and it was funny, I was having coffee with John Steinberg in, in London the other day, and, that was the
moment. He,
[00:07:55] Brian: how you
draft that.
he left the company Where were you? Where were you?
[00:07:59] Troy: oh, I went to his new office, his fresh new office, his office is in, I think it's in Mayfair.
[00:08:04] Brian: Yeah.
[00:08:04] Troy: He learned his lesson. He's, he's back to search, go back to the more def, dependable distribution algorithm.
yeah, yeah. and then you have the misalignment of complex. Which I think has been hard on both of those companies when they came together, even the acquisition of HuffPo came at the right price, but then there was the sort of overlap between HuffPo and buzzfeed news and what was the difference.
so a bunch of, to me, a, a bunch of mistakes probably should have really tightened up the business a lot earlier and brought costs in line with, revenue maybe looking back, it's easy to say this, but news was never gonna work to me with its level of ambition as purely an ad supported, endeavor.
lots of mistakes, but,also, I want to kind of salute those guys because they did a lot of cool stuff and we, certainly I admired a much of what they did and. When they did something like news, they brought in good people and they made good product.
[00:08:59] Brian: when you were at like Hearst, I mean, you guess ran profitable businesses, And so I think a lot of times in this era, yeah, it was, I think you used the word hacking and Jonah I think is. at his heart, he's like a media hacker, he came out of m i t media lab and he was doing the whatever, sweatshops thing on Nike's and whatnot, and he wanted to run a bunch of viral experiments.
Then he had a media company around it, and this was an era where everyone was trying to hack distribution, hack this, hack that. It was the era where Upworthy came outta nowhere and then got some like Forbes cover, which is like the kiss of death for anyone or anything.
[00:09:32] Troy: Hey, hey, hey.
Go, go.
[00:09:33] Brian: you know, said it's the fastest one, the 50 million, and, what is it?
Little things. I mean, Joe, parlayed that thing into it was like they were selling dog food. All of a sudden they were in the media
[00:09:43] Troy: That one. I never that one. That one I never quite
[00:09:46] Brian: they were doing feel good kind. Well, that's the thing. You could hack your way into fooling yourself that you had massive distribution
[00:09:52] Troy: But little things, little things as a brand, no,
[00:09:55] Brian: it's the little things you see, it's the little things.
[00:09:59] Troy: Let's
ask our branding, our our, brand consultant, Alex. Little things, thumbs up or thumbs down on that As a media company,
[00:10:05] Brian: I think you're muted. Alex. This is like a Zoom call.
[00:10:08] Alex: Oh, sorry.
[00:10:09] Brian: Did Alex quit the podcast?
[00:10:10] Alex: I mean, I have less to say about all this. I
[00:10:12] Brian: He really didn't like this topic.
[00:10:14] Alex: no, I'm fine with, I'm fine with this topic. I get
[00:10:16] Troy: What do you think of the Buzzfeed LO logo? Alex, do you like the Buzzfeed logo?
[00:10:20] Alex: I liked what they ended up. Doing with it. I always actually quite liked their design. they used to have these little labels that used to say like win and lull,
[00:10:30] Troy: arrow up was kind of cool.
[00:10:31] Alex: Yeah. Yeah. I never liked how much it was based around virality and the metric of it. I always thought there was distasteful and when you build a brand around these types of hooks all the way to your logo being a graph that goes up, I think once again, nobody learned from the time Google, changed the algorithm and destroyed businesses.
I think Mahalo and places like that were wiped off the face of the earth.
[00:10:55] Brian: well, it means goodbye. It means hello and goodbye. So fitting name Jason.
[00:11:00] Alex: yeah. And because it was a Jason Calcan business, nobody was sad about it. But in this case, once again, they pegged their business to social in this case, and SEO in some way.
[00:11:11] Brian: Yeah, but I think that from a brand perspective, see, to me, I remember actually talking with, with John when they first started news and I asked a very tactical question. I was like, you gotta change the site. He's like, what are you talking about? I'm like, you cannot have lol, omg, wtf, under Medicare fraud.
uncovering that, you just haven't aligned yourself like what you're claiming you're gonna do with this news. I don't understand how it belongs in the place where 15 things only a middle child needs. And I feel like publishers in this era, because of Facebook and because the feed. They thought trained people not to make those changes.
you can say like newspapers have all sorts of different things, but like the idea of building a really ambitious newsroom and winning the Pulitzer, which they did it just didn't line up with the rest of the business. The business was about catching virality and then transferring that expertise to brands through an agency model.
It never translated to a news business and news is often subsidized by other businesses, but I never really understood how there was any alignment between the news business and what the news organization, cause it wasn't a business and the overall business itself. Am I missing something?
[00:12:20] Troy: I don't think so. No. I'm wondering who can we contrast buzzfeed with from that era that built something more resilient? Would it be insider?
[00:12:30] Brian: Well, they, they, they laid off 10%
[00:12:32] Troy: but I mean, everybody's laid, laid off people, so I don't think that disqualifies them, one could consider, I mean, certainly the exit was a success,
[00:12:41] Brian: the exo. I mean, come on. Henry belongs in the hall of fame of media
[00:12:45] Troy: Yeah. Yeah. But, but okay, so he got that right? is insider gonna be around, it's diversified, right? We're gonna criticize Buzzfeed for not having a subscription line item. insider's a subscription product, it's born of the same era. Used many of the distribution tactics in terms of, headline hyperbole and getting distribution on social and jacking Google and all that.
They're doing fine. Who else? Politico had a great exit. More focused
[00:13:12] Brian: was born of a previous era.
It came out of blogging, not out of the social media stuff.
Okay, fair enough. Yeah,
[00:13:19] Troy: I think Axios is because they did the bullet points.
so that's it. Format matters.
[00:13:24] Brian: No, I mean they executed against they found a high value area where they weren't gonna get eaten up and spit out by platforms. at the end of the day, Buzzfeed hitched its business to Facebook,
Every time I talk with Jonah, the money was right around the corner. It was like over years. it was like the audience numbers kept getting bigger. Then it became video numbers and the money was always, right around the corner.
And I think about Buzzfeed.
[00:13:48] Alex: No, but the person you were saying.
[00:13:50] Brian: Oh, Jonah. Jonah. Pre.
[00:13:51] Alex: Oh, yeah. do you wanna maybe kind of run through some of the key players here?
[00:13:54] Troy: Okay, but
What What is, what just happened here? Did Alex just realize he's on a podcast about buzz
[00:14:00] Brian: I think so. I think he quit and then he rejoined
[00:14:02] Alex: What do
[00:14:02] Troy: Oh my God, I think he's high.
[00:14:04] Brian: That would be fun.
[00:14:06] Troy: No. Why is it wearing, he's wearing some tropical garb. Is that a robe or is it a
[00:14:10] Alex: All right. It's a robe. I'm
[00:14:12] Brian: Bring your full self to the podcast, Alex,
[00:14:14] Troy: Jesus. Okay,
[00:14:15] Brian: Troy. Don't
bring your full self. just
[00:14:18] Alex: but I just think you guys keep mentioning people by their first names and it's hard to track.
[00:14:21] Troy: it's fucking Jonah Perretti, dude.
[00:14:24] Brian: Jonah Pre's famous.
He, he wrote workshops on a Nike Air.
[00:14:28] Troy: You know Jonah
[00:14:29] Brian: he has a Wikipedia page. Everyone knows him.
[00:14:31] Alex: oh yeah.
[00:14:32] Troy: yeah.
[00:14:32] Brian: Anyway, anytime I talk with Jonah Perretti over the years, the money was right around the corner from the platforms and of course it never really arrived. I think that's the problem of, hitching your strategy to the platforms.
it's common knowledge now, I would guess. But I think back then it really wasn't I got a message from someone during that era, I just wanna read some of it, that he sent to me. cuz he had been at a lot of legacy publications, quote unquote the ones that are still around that are profitable.
And he said, Buzzfeed, they acted as the weights used by deep sea divers. They brought everyone down once there we saw some interesting things and learned new skills, but we were all still swimming at the bottom. Once they started having success with social bait content, their pole was irresistible to even the most storied of media brands.
The pressure from the higher ups on middle managers like me was always to be more like them and Early Business Insider. By the time they smartened up and started winning awards, the damage was already done. We were all prisoners of the platform's traffic machine, and regardless of what we were saying to ourselves, we were optimizing for that.
They set back subscription strategies, paywalls and other business models. By at least five years of my rough estimation, a sliding door history of the media would ask what monetization strategies would different publications have pursued if Buzzfeed hadn't existed?
[00:15:46] Troy: Great note. that's cool.
[00:15:47] Brian: you
can tell they're a
[00:15:48] Troy: Yeah. you reminded me. I remember sitting at Hearst and, someone from, I can't remember the name of the person from the New York Times Innovation Task Force, set up an appointment and
came over and talked about,
[00:16:00] Brian: The
innovation
task force.
[00:16:01] Troy: Yeah. Do you, you
[00:16:02] Brian: yeah. Yeah. 2014. For, for those who do not remember a seminal moment, the New York Times, buzzfeed actually broke the news. They actually published the New York Times Innovation report, which name checked Buzzfeed 23 different times. It was obsessed with buzzfeed.
[00:16:16] Troy: Yeah, remember we were talking about at the time how much work content had to do to get distribution. I remember that conversation specifically and that,it wasn't enough to just create a piece of content and assume that it had distribution, but you had to push it out into the world and it had to do a whole bunch of work for you, which is kind of the beginnings of something that Buzzfeed had known for a long time, which is that the way that you frame content with the headline and,inside of a social environment really could determine its success.
And the New York Times was desperate to learn. There was a lot, there was a lot of pressure on them at the time because I think there was a prevailing idea that, Buzzfeed was a real threat to them.
[00:16:53] Troy: that's why they were referenced 23 times in that document.
think this point was that they pulled the entire industry with them in this direction.
Yeah,
[00:17:01] Alex: I'm, May having a hard time paying attention because I just found out that Jonah Peretti's sister is Chelsea Pereti.
[00:17:06] Brian: You didn't know this,
[00:17:07] Alex: No, I just, I'm finding a lot of new things
[00:17:10] Brian: you gotta get on his Wikipedia
[00:17:11] Alex: Uh, that's what I, that's what I did. Cuz I was, I was feeling inadequate for this conversation. So what happens next? Okay.
Buzzfeed is gone. Nobody cares.
[00:17:20] Troy: I think we just discovered a format. We can bring topics that Alex doesn't know anything about to
the
table.
And, he can ask us questions about it.
[00:17:27] Brian: Alex might be from Al Sal, Lorraine or wherever in Europe, but he's true Californian and that like they don't care about the past or the present. They only care about the
future
[00:17:35] Alex: right.
[00:17:35] Brian: cuz
[00:17:36] Alex: forward.honestly, like I know it, it's funny because I, I listen to a lot of media podcasts especially, and read a lot of media stuff, especially after doing this podcast. And it's amazing how, how much, attention this got. the people I told you, oh, Buzzfeed News, was shut down.
Most people said what there was still a thing, like most people thought Buzzfeed stopped existing. By the way, guys, I'm sorry to be the Bear of Bad News, but nobody gives a shit. And so, and so, and,
[00:18:03] Brian:
[00:18:03] Alex: you
[00:18:03] Brian: Real talk
from Alex and
his band of Merry, band of robots.
[00:18:07] Alex: it's, bad. that people lost their job.
I don't know if, buzzfeed had become an important part of people's media diet.
[00:18:13] Troy: I think the perspective is important, but I also feel like I need to bring up something. Someone sent a comment this week that they were gonna install an Alex blocker. Someone
who was, he heavily invested in the future of advertising
had decided that you had, that you needed to be silenced.
[00:18:32] Brian: Yeah. When I start selling ads on this podcast, you're gonna need to tone down
the anti
rhetoric.
[00:18:36] Alex: it's, it's easy to upset the Catholics when you're an atheist, but I don't know how, where. where this takes us. what I would love to figure out is where do you think this goes next? There are still brands like insider Axials, and places like that, that seem to be doing pretty well.
maybe their cost structures are different. Maybe they're more diversified. I watch a lot of insider content, the only insider content I ever watch is, why is this so expensive? Or whatever that show is called, and they find some weird vegetable that costs a lot to grow. And I watch that a lot.
So I don't think there's one like future. Well, I got a text from, from someone who's building, I guess what they would say is one of what comes next. And I said, what is the thread with all this stuff? And this person had said, no more general interests, no big newsrooms, no programmatic, no big sales forces.
[00:19:21] Brian: that's one vision.
[00:19:22] Troy: I
think that's kind of right.
[00:19:23] Alex: really,
[00:19:24] Brian: Yeah. But I think this is part of the shrunken ambition of media, the conversations I have, most, are, you know, I was like, what's working right now? I mean, you've brought up nothing is working. Hillary Fry wrote, who I worked with very briefly at Adweek. she's now the slate editor, editor-in-chief.
she wrote all the stuff that worked before isn't working. And you hear this repeatedly, it has been this ear of hacks was always trying to hack things, but now it's like, Can't hack, search might stop working. Commerce isn't working the way it used to.
Social has never really worked. video, eh,
[00:19:52] Alex: but it works until it doesn't. Right? This is another conversation around platform owners there's maybe a reason why all these writers are flocking to newsletters via Substack It's not because that's an incredible innovation. It's just because, we've been wearing too many. This is like everybody retreating to the countryside after the pandemic going, f*ck it.
Back to our roots. We're gonna do newsletters. We're, we're not getting excited about any new platform.
[00:20:16] Brian: A pastoral life.
[00:20:17] Alex: Yeah. And the people are saying, you know what, social is dead. You should move all your content to YouTube. That shit might happen to YouTube. You still don't know any of it.
[00:20:25] Brian: I want to defect to Europe and the summer is the best time to defect to Europe.
[00:20:29] Alex: Yep.
[00:20:30] Troy: useful guys to think about the economics of this. Brian, how many pages do you think is a successful Buzzfeed news article? What would you estimate? 20,000?
[00:20:40] Brian: Yeah. Probably less
[00:20:41] Troy: Yeah. 10 to 20,000. Okay. So what do you think the yield is, or as they say in the business, the RPM of a buzzfeed page
monetize programmatically.
[00:20:50] Brian: Yeah.
but the thing is like they didn't even start this thing with any programmatic advertising. It was still all, that's what I'm saying. There was no alignment with the
[00:20:58] Troy: Fair enough. Fair enough. But assume that, that there was a bunch of banners on the page, I would estimate the
RPM to be 10, 10 to, to, no, but dude, they put, they put the ban, they put the banners on ev eventually. What I'm just trying to explain is that just kind of raw economics of the problem.
Okay? You have 10 to 20,000 pages on a decent news article. The yield on the page. Is probably $10, So you got five banners that are $2 each. Okay? So that's
10,000. Yes. 10,000 or 20,000 page shoes is between a hundred and $200. That a hundred or $200 that's your revenue, and your content costs have to come in under 30% of your business,
let's assume that was $200 times 30. You could pay $60 to have that article written. And even then you don't have a particularly good business. So the whole thing, the maths, the maths aren't very good,
[00:21:54] Brian: But the thing is, it's never, news has never been a very good business outside of cable news, right?
It has always
been subsidized.
[00:22:01] Troy: true, but it's news and it's more,
[00:22:03] Brian: but if you're gonna have a money losing news operation, you better think pretty clearly what your overall strategy is and how that aligns with your strategy. Bloomberg for instance, the FT had a great, deep dive into the future of Bloomberg. Now it's not the deep dive that I would be interested in because it's about the real Bloomberg business, which is a terminal in a data business.
They have a, a quote unquote successful media business that's 500 million that's sizable. It's 4% of the revenue of Bloomberg lp.
[00:22:31] Troy: it's a breakeven business at best. No, but you just have to layer it all together, right? You gotta take that page revenue that, that we just talked about. You have to have subscription revenue on top of that, you have to have more than news content. You have to have high yield lifestyle content and you gotta make all of that work.
you can't just rely on. a sh*tty lifestyle business, which Buzzfeed has subsidizing a terrible news business. Just never, this, the math will
[00:23:02] Brian: Okay, so, so that's what I'm saying. There's no strategy when you're saying we're gonna take our, terrible news business and subsidize it with a shitty lifestyle business. That doesn't sound very compelling. I didn't go to business school, but it doesn't sound
[00:23:13] Alex: Well, the lifestyle business was only shitty. After, the economics changed. When the platforms changed, the way they were sending traffic and advertising got less. Wasn't it a good
[00:23:23] Brian: n no, it was always shitty. When did bu when, when were all these profits that Buzzfeed made when were that I remember I had Jonah on, I was like, when are you gonna be profitable? He goes, we were profitable. I was like, which day?
[00:23:33] Alex: Which
[00:23:33] Troy: late, late November.
[00:23:36] Brian: Like, never remember one day
[00:23:37] Alex: on
[00:23:37] Troy: remember
[00:23:37] Brian: were profitable.
[00:23:39] Alex: Yeah. Okay. So,
[00:23:40] Brian: I
[00:23:40] Alex: a,
[00:23:40] Brian: is the
problem with the venture capital
thing.
[00:23:42] Alex: a, it's a bad business that's dead. back
to my point, who gives a shit?
[00:23:45] Brian: if you're gonna subsidize news, I think it's better to subsidize news with the high margins of a terminal business than it is to subsidized news with venture capital money. And a lot of that money, by the way, came from really scared traditional media companies that were doing hedging strategies.
how nuts was it that n b NBCUniversal poured $200 million into Buzzfeed rather than into n NBC news?
[00:24:09] Troy: Hearst was an investor in Buzzfeed, but earlier had less money. But
[00:24:13] Brian: Chris
[00:24:13] Troy: yeah, there were others.
[00:24:14] Alex: you had to look at the, Psychology of opening Google, looking for something and having Buzzfeed being the first two spots of every single thing you're searching. And that makes you pretty f*cking anxious if you're a media company. You know what I mean?
I mean, that's the thing. It's, I'm not saying those, those were smart decisions. They were just emotional and, there were a lot of bad investments in tech. CNET was bought and resold for, many more times what it was worth and is is not worth a lot today.
So all of these
[00:24:40] Brian: Oh, cnet. So, but here. Oh, oh. But CNET is very profitable.
[00:24:43] Alex: uh,
[00:24:44] Brian: Be,
[00:24:44] Alex: s e o farm
[00:24:45] Brian: yeah.
[00:24:46] Alex: For now.
[00:24:47] Brian: I mean, this is, this is the media that's working,
right Like the media that is
[00:24:51] Alex: right Over the next three months, yes.
[00:24:53] Brian: what is working is the least glamorous parts of media. Decision Media demand gen.
[00:25:00] Alex: All that shit's gonna be replaced with AI though.
[00:25:02] Brian: Oh, here we go. Here's the pivot. I don't have the timestamp cuz
[00:25:06] Alex: I mean, let me get onto CNET right now. The first CNET article at the top of their page, the big picture, above the fold is 13 Airport Pro tips. You should be using there's
[00:25:18] Brian: Okay, but where does it Can you Google like AirPod
[00:25:21] Alex: No, no,
[00:25:21] Brian: tips?
[00:25:22] Alex: But what I'm saying is
like, is like right, but they're like those little fish that swim next to the whale and feed off their, like whatever,whale dirt. if the whale dies, those fish are dead too. so here's what I'm worried about, Honestly, the thing with buzzfeed happen and I'm like, okay, maybe what I'm more worried about is that I keep hearing how bad a business news is.
who's gonna pay for investigative journalism and stuff like that. How are we gonna do that? Does it need to just be state funded? Do we just need a B BBC everywhere
[00:25:47] Brian: Oh,
[00:25:48] Alex: No.
[00:25:49] Brian: we took a right turn right into AI and the European stuff.
[00:25:52] Alex: I think we should have state funded AI powered
investigative journalism.
[00:25:57] Brian: No,
But investigative journalism is a perfect example of it's completely, it is an unprofitable and it needs to be subsidized. Now, where those subsidies come from, I think is an
[00:26:08] Alex: Well, it's Bezos right now. It's like Bezos
buying, uh, the Washington,
[00:26:11] Troy: I feel like I just witnessed, witnessed the collision of Europe and Silicon Valley right inside of Alex's microphone.
[00:26:19] Brian: My wife's in Italy
right now, and she's like, it's amazing. It's the middle of the day and there's a massive line to get ice cream in Milan.
[00:26:26] Alex: Yeah.
You know?
[00:26:27] Brian: to the office.
[00:26:28] Alex: I'm trying to just move the conversation to a place where okay, this bad business that's hung around for too long is dead. We keep saying that news is a terrible business. What does subsidizing mean? who has the motivations to
[00:26:39] Troy: wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Why? Why are we talking subsidies already? Alex, why do you always talk subsidies?
We have lots of news. We have lots. There's lots of news. I, there's more news than I can read. I can read the Atlantic. I can read the ft. I can read the Wall Street Journal. I can watch it on tv.
There's all kinds of news.
[00:26:57] Brian: This thing, there's too much news and there's particularly too much political news. And the reality of news that I think a lot of people don't discuss is its entertainment. choosing to consume news is not any better than choosing to consume the Kardashians on a lot of levels. we try to convince ourselves of that, but really reading about what's going on in these corners of the world that it has no impact on me whatsoever.
I do it because I'm interested in it the same way as I read like non-fiction books. And right now the market is, is saturated for news content, particularly political news content. We need less of it, not more.
[00:27:32] Alex: But political news content not something that's. Particularly hard politicians want their news to get out, so essentially what you have in political newsrooms is mostly people capture that information and edited into something and maybe add some commentary on top of it.
I'm talking about like, serious, the two things that are, disappearing, I keep hearing I'm not a media professional, are investigative journalism. and, local journalism, Local newspaper, local news like that. These are two things that I think are important outside of the, finding out, what's happening somewhere where that doesn't really impact you.
and I think part of what Buzzfeed was maybe showing or trying to do was being like a modern new purveyor of, news that wasn't being handled by a, 200 year old institution.
[00:28:16] Troy: my take is particularly mid-size to large cities will represent a really good opportunity for news companies that. tweak their cost structure and figured out how to stay in those markets because it's a protected, just like it was in the old days when it was an extraordinary print business.
Their little local monopolies, Hearst for example, runs the Houston Chronicle, big town, lots of money. they run two sites there. One is a paid subscription property, the other's called the Quran, which is a free, kind of less rigorous, free news property. And I think that, they're not gonna be challenged by anyone.
I think those are gonna be markets. If they can get the cost structure right, those will be good markets for them. and, and then you're seeing, Axios experiment with really lean news and smaller markets.
Green shoots local news in medium and large markets. You get, local news opportunities that, will be, I think, dominated by one player where you can make the economics work. So in places like, Houston and San Francisco and Dallas and Philadelphia, you're gonna have companies that over the next, you know, several years that, and have been adjusting to, the sort of economics or the digital realities, for some time.
And I think that, owning a local news market, Is gonna be a fine business. I think it's gonna be harder in small towns. and you're gonna see folks try to do those with, kind of hyper efficiency. But
[00:29:43] Brian: Yeah. It'll be a patchwork.
[00:29:45] Troy: but local
news, I think will be okay.
Investigative news,
I don't see the drought there that you see.
Alex, I think there's lots of good work going on.
[00:29:53] Alex: Oh, I mean, so maybe news isn't under attack then.
[00:29:56] Troy: I think
[00:29:56] Brian: no, I don't think it's, like, it's, look, this is just all the same story. I mean, the internet has been a disaster for the news as a business. that's without a doubt. wherever you want to put the blame. But the reality is, the reality has been bad overall for the business.
Most businesses have not done well. There are instances in local Seattle has a really interesting, paper there probably fits in with, the model that you're talking about. In Minnesota, star Tribune's doing well. Glen Fest in, Philadelphia. Maybe they can make that work. I mean,
[00:30:27] Troy: I mean, I look at it and I think what I'd rather be, a, women's lifestyle publisher like, a Cosmo or one of the bustle properties or something struggling and competing with 10 other folks and with social media and with influencers. Or would I rather have a dominant position in a mid to large size city as a local news provider?
And I would choose the latter because it's unique and differentiated. And because you can own the market.
[00:30:51] Brian: Yeah, I think we'll see new models beyond local news. I mean, I think there's, there's lots of different, it's just the entire, I mean, you wrote a little bit about it this week, I think, and this ties into ai, you need to, I think as you would say, like refactor the organization.
And, youa lot of these things is about aligning your resources with what your, your mission is and, and, and what the business model is.
[00:31:11] Troy: well, this era of digital publishers are like, buzzfeed are really struggling. I'm involved with a handful of media businesses that are either super niche pointed at, high value B2B categories or like you said, focused on lower funnel stuff that are just having a great year.
They're doing great. and look at your, small business. Brian is,Off to a good start this
[00:31:31] Brian: Yeah. I'm the Chamber of Commerce success story.
[00:31:34] Troy: I'm optimistic,
[00:31:35] Brian: I
actually am,
we pretend that there's one publishing industry and there's not, there's many of them and you always hear this anytime. It's well, medias at a time, Rafa is like, well, not b2b. It's okay, fine. But the dynamics in B2B are so, so different than general news.
they're completely different categories. They shouldn't
[00:31:54] Troy: Mm-hmm. I mean, if you wanted to make an elegant transition to AI stuff, I don't know if Alex said it on the pod last week, but he either said it there or to me privately. He was talking about how AI had become the infrastructure for universal entities. it reminded me of some of the.
Work that we had done at Hearst, integrating analytics and all bunch of other kind of data services into Slack. I just thought what Alex had said was really prescient and was gonna kind of like that. You could see ways of rebuilding the enterprise with, AI kind of central to how people work together in ways that just made everybody's life easier and made, the company more productive and more creative.
So this idea that for little things Alex, like building mid journey into discord. Cool idea. just the beginning of how AI will support communication and brainstorming and creativity. And then when you were talking about how you were, kind of shaping chat g p T to become kind of part of. Of how eventually manage the narrative of games that you were working on.
to me is amazing. that's cool stuff and stuff that people can, apply that in all kinds of ways in companies.
[00:33:07] Brian: I was actually thinking about this weekend. It might not be for the podcast, but like you should build an AI media company.
[00:33:12] Troy: Well, we should, and,
[00:33:13] Brian: about
[00:33:13] Alex: I mean, I wanted to,
[00:33:14] Brian: so like Vox had.
[00:33:15] Troy: about this here
[00:33:16] Alex: hold,
[00:33:17] Brian: Vox, Vox had their cms.
You, he left. Oh, no.
[00:33:23] Alex: Oh boy.
[00:33:24] Brian:
Comedy of
[00:33:25] Alex: Yeah. It's
terrible
[00:33:26] Brian: haven't done any of them.
[00:33:27] Alex: No, no. You've been perfect by the way.
Your, your audio's been perfect. You're technically,
[00:33:33] Brian: The fuck the one day I've got my shit together.
[00:33:35] Take 2
[00:33:36] Alex: Yeah, we were talking about AI stuff. AI media company, and then you got excited and you tore off your microphone cable.
[00:33:46] Troy: you started talking about how AI had become creative infrastructure for your company. That excited me, that connected to an idea that. I had been a real advocate for years ago about how, data powered chat became central to how I wanted to manage a company.
Then I started thinking about people versus algorithms and how we could actually become hyper efficient in serving the audience. so combining, deep kind of human, content creation with AI supported aggregation in ways that filled the gaps, but also was, very, useful to the audience by.
Training the AI to find the things that fit through our lens. And then I got thinking about that kind of extrapolated into, other types of media production video in particular, and how that was all gonna become much more accessible to small teams. And that if you just kind of put all of that together with people that shaped it, that really cared about their audience and, wanted to make it great, you could build a super lean, really engaging media company.
But with 10 people,
[00:34:59] Brian: Yeah, I think it's like in, it's like people versus algorithms, but it's humans and AI a lot of times these things and they start off oppositional, but the answer is usually both.
Right? And so,
[00:35:09] Troy: of the podcast.
[00:35:10] Alex: People
[00:35:11] Brian: yeah,
[00:35:11] Alex: but, uh,
[00:35:12] Brian: yeah, we made friends. We made friends.
[00:35:14] Alex: I think that we're going to see there, there's going to be a lot of exciting stuff that can happen, within the news sourcing the writing, but specifically just the way we delivered the news using, ai. And, I don't know exactly what that looks like, but do you remember
that little, you remember everything?
Do you, do you remember that little Quartz site that was
[00:35:34] Brian: Yeah. The
[00:35:34] Alex: chat.
Yeah,
[00:35:35] Brian: That's what it's gonna look like. So instead of headlines, you're gonna have prompts, And then we will go into you're having a conversation with a human, but you know how being at the end, it's a choose your own adventure thing if you need more information, cuz a lot of times, what you're trying to do with a news article is you're putting different things in there and sometimes you gotta do a lot of B material.
But then kind of like you were saying about Jonah Peretti, it's people don't know Jonah andthere should be options in which. Personally for me, a lot of times when I'm reading these articles, I know all the B material already, so I kind of want to get rid of it.
And a lot of that stuff should be done by ai, it should pull out of an llm. there's different ways I feel like you can meld them together. And particularly if you have your own unique corpus of data, that's gonna be a tremendous advantage to be able to train AI on that.
so
[00:36:18] Alex: which is why I I wonder how valuable a company like Twitter is going to be as an AI news machine, I really think that the corpus here in news, like who has the best corpus, the most realtime corpus of data. Now, they don't technically own any of it, right, because it's on, on loan from the users.
when you're looking at realtime news and it being generated via an ai, there are very few places like Twitter,
if that
[00:36:42] Brian: Yeah. But that's gonna be like the pure sort of AI approach. And I don't think that that is interesting, to be honest with you. I think it's interesting to people who live near you. I don't think in general it's gonna be, but maybe,
[00:36:53] Alex: every morning I ask Siri to play the N P R news update on the hour, and it just gives me that five minute, you
know, and that type of stuff is, definitely something that could be replaced with something that is entirely generated voice and oil
[00:37:08] Brian: what's working in media right now, I think you could broadly say one of the things that's working is quote unquote personality, whether it's creator or whatever. Now working in media is you have to define it down. I, I read something from Goldman Sachs. At 4% of the people in the quote unquote creator economy earn six figures or above 4%.
there's no middle class in ck It's something the Pretto principle has been redefined where it's like a 95.5. It's 95% of the revenue is generated by 5%. and see you can probably solve these problems because the creator economy needs to, in some ways rebundle, there's too many people out there doing too many different things, I think that you can see a way to use AI in order to take the best of the promises of the creator economy and human connection And to combine it with the efficiency gains that should result from ai.
[00:38:01] Alex: a lot of the content is written and rewritten, Didn't I hear that? that special kind of Thanksgiving, issue of Martha Stewart is actually like 70% allegedly. I don't have any proof, but you know, most of it is some sort of remix of what came before,
Because a lot of that stuff is evergreen or gets, reconfigured. So you could build a much more efficient organization where you write things once and you write it in a way that is not quite like an article, which is much more,dynamic and, and linked in its content the same way I'm writing this narrative stuff for our studio.
Everything's linked and, and there's relationships between piece of content, which then means that, on demand you can create, content that is relevant for a specific user,
[00:38:40] Troy: I mean, I think we could have an absolute blast. I even hesitate to talk about this, here, but I mean, I know, so it doesn't mean that, I would stop, making, a weekly newsletter. It does mean that. you would build some automated filters to find things that were interesting every morning to your audience.
It does mean that you'd probably do a seven minute, audio news summary that was, shaped by AI and read by Snoop Dogg or whoever Alex comes up with, maybe by Grimes or something like that. the only reason I said that, by the way, is that she just came out publicly and said that anybody could take her vocals and or her voice and make music.
And if it became a hit, she just wanted half the money,
which I think,
[00:39:25] Alex: Grimes music.
[00:39:26] Troy: so we don't, we don't have to use crimes.
[00:39:30] Alex: Great.
[00:39:32] Troy: Yeah, it's true. Okay. But you get the point. I mean, I think that if you, kind of reimagine all of this and you make, put humans at the controls, but you creatively apply technology, I think we could build something remarkable. I think we should do it.
[00:39:46] Brian: I think what's interesting, it's like I've been thinking about the SE FORMM and all these different attempts to reinvent the news article, if you will. and to me, it has to be conversational and the only way you can make these things conversational for a bunch of different people is by applying technology and using AI to do that.
I just think people are going to get habituated into the chat interface. I think Quartz was ahead of its time. Sorry, quartz. Sorry, Zach.
[00:40:12] Troy: Alex, please just get your camera set up.
[00:40:15] Brian: Oh my God. This is a reversal. Troy gets to lecture you.
[00:40:19] Troy: Jesus. so what did we establish so far? Do you mind? So we talked about Buzzfeed, we talked about good decisions and bad, we then transitioned to sustainable media creation. Brian, did we talk
[00:40:32] Brian: Yeah. What's working?
And then so what comes next? Cuz Alex wants us to talk about what's next. I don't wanna talk about
the past.
[00:40:38] Troy: So I think that what's next is creative application of technology to make media work more effectively augmenting human creativity.
Tm,
[00:40:47] Brian: Yeah, it's a good tagline.
[00:40:48] Alex: Wow. What does that mean?
[00:40:49] Brian: Well,
[00:40:49] Troy: someone will figure it out.
[00:40:50] Brian: next.
[00:40:52] Troy: Yeah. Tune in next week.
[00:40:55] Alex: my question was like, looking forward, if, Buzzfeed at some point was seen as the future of news, what is the future of news in this new world? And one that is maybe hopefully built on a more robust foundation then kind of hoping and praying that SEO or social media doesn't go away as a traffic source,
and I do think that there's something there and, we could do it as part of this experiment, as part of the people versus algorithms, brand, create something new.
[00:41:20] Troy: Let's do
it.
[00:41:21] Brian: AI news, I'm telling you.
[00:41:23] Alex: and so AI news, there's three ways of looking at it.
There's news about ai, which is, I
don't think what we're talking
about.
[00:41:29] Brian: not.
[00:41:29] Troy: here's here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna do it. We're not gonna take any investment. as of today. You, guys are not on the cap table, but I will make you shareholders in the media brand and, we will, use this podcast as a way to share the things that we're learning with the audience. And we will, get
her going.
[00:41:48] Brian: it'll be organic.
[00:41:49] Troy: Yeah.
It'd be good, Brian, if we could get just a few shackles to underwrite it.
[00:41:54] Brian: yeah, yeah.
yeah. No, there's gonna, there's gonna be
advertising that's involved. Although I think a lot of this is, to have like true alignment. I keep going back to alignment cause I wanna make it happen for this episode. I do think that came out of this era is. It's really important to have alignment with the, your audience.
And I think a lot of times the alignment that was taking place, coming out of the Sierra was an alignment with the advertiser, not the, not the audience. And I think that built a contradiction in these models that was unsustainable long
[00:42:20] Alex: Yes. And that's why, and the incentives are, which is why advertising, I know advertising cannot go away. I'm, I'm not an unrealistic person, but I do think that advertising incentivizes the wrong decisions towards the product. and it does scare me that, for example, Netflix, now you hear in the last, earnings report, Netflix shared that, they make more money, often advertising supported customer than membership, supported customer, which scares me that they're just gonna bring advertising back into Netflix.
things are cyclical. But I do feel like if we're going to commit to building this new AI news, product in real time in front of this audience that we try to do it without advertising, even though, even though I'm open to having advertising fund this podcast. So we can make a few bucks,
[00:43:04] Brian: Yeah. First of all, we're not gonna run advertising. We're gonna run tasteful, what do you call them? Try tasteful integrations.
[00:43:09] Alex: Yeah.
[00:43:10] Troy: Expandos
[00:43:11] Brian: Tasteful expando.
[00:43:13] Alex: partnership. partnership content.
[00:43:15] Troy: we should run some ads for people that fit into what we're doing. But how else would we make money? you guys, what? Are we gonna sell? Some, I mean, it's a podcast. people aren't gonna subscribe to it. What are
we gonna do?
[00:43:26] Brian: if that's true,
[00:43:26] Alex: I think, maybe we should ask, first of all, people should start, commenting and, and adding, more reviews on the app store, please. On the, apple Podcasting. But I think people pay for subscriptions. I pay for lots of podcast subscriptions.
[00:43:38] Brian: the subsidy sort of thing I think comes into play here, So people end up paying at the heart of it, this stuff is, it's chat, it's conversation, And so, I think a lot of this stuff is gonna lead people to value in person and like human conversation more than before.
So I think there's, and you
look at it, you look at with podcasts having live events and stuff as part of the model. I think that's, yeah, fine. It doesn't scale, but there's a reason for, for that.
[00:44:04] Troy: do you think we could get a European government to underwrite it? Alex,
[00:44:07] Alex: No, they're gonna wanna put GDPR on
everything
[00:44:11] Troy: Canada might do it. could be
more efficient than the cbc.
[00:44:14] Brian: I went to grad school to and studied European politics and economics right when like the EU was, really being formed by the Matric Treaty and I was trying to go over the, the common agricultural policy. I didn't like study this stuff. I was going through and I'm like, we could literally say that our little teeny backyard in live in Belgium was arable land and get funded by the government.
everything I could see, I was like, it wouldn't be a large amount of money, but we, we would be able to get some kind of subsidy.
[00:44:39] Troy: Can we
[00:44:39] Brian: It's a great place.
[00:44:40] Alex: We should do that and fund our AI startup. so the future of, with that, the future of news is us, doing a, an AI startup, nobody gives a shit about Buzzfeed. and I don't know what else we took from this
conversation
today.
[00:44:54] Brian: that nobody gives a shit
about
[00:44:55] Alex: What, so just to close it up, what do you think people should take away from, from the buzzfeed thing? Because it sounds to me like couple of things, it was never a good business. It wasn't particularly well run, and it never accomplished the things it was trying to accomplish and doesn't seem to be particularly dominant in culture today. what should we take away from all this?
[00:45:13] Brian: my big takeaway is whatever the next generation, and there's gonna be a bunch of different people who start new media, companies, is, there needs to be a tight alignment. At least I don't, there are too many contradictions to these models that the different parts were not aligned and that does not work.
And the contradictions that inevitably they collapse because, you can't go on forever with that. And, venture capital funding was of cover in many ways for a lot of these contradictions. And the fact that, of a business that wasn't working.
[00:45:43] Alex: Isn't the issue though. I mean, you, you raised it, or was it Troy? But there's just enough media, isn't there? there's just so much news, so much media to consume. Do we need more media? did we ever need the buzzfeed?
[00:45:55] Brian: you know what?
[00:45:56] Troy: this podcast?
[00:45:57] Brian: Nobody needs this podcast. I walk around my neighborhood and there are 10 dispensaries and there are 10 pizza places within five blocks.
[00:46:05] Alex: I get that. But
[00:46:06] Brian: there's no way the financial district needs 10 of each.
How much weed and how much pizza are you gonna eat?
[00:46:11] Alex: I personally wanted to make this podcast because I couldn't find, anything like it that talked about the. Topics we cover and how we cover them. I think there's something different about this podcast to a lot of the tech
[00:46:21] Brian: Oh, great. We have a founding, we have, we have one of those founding myths too. oh, I just found a problem that I wanted to solve. And then Troy's got the, Troy's got the, the sales pitch. We just need step two or three, I guess, which is just, making something valuable.
[00:46:34] Alex: You know, growing up I always thought,
how can we make
[00:46:37] Brian: I was walking around to one
[00:46:39] Alex: No, but I mean, I mean, and seriously, I, do think, or at least we try to talk about things in a way that isn't covered. And I'm just like always a very focused, topics like that, that might not be covered. but maybe to me the lesson about Buzzfeed is don't try.
There's enough out there To all the entrepreneurs
out there, there's better ways to make money. There's
[00:46:57] Brian: yeah. No shit.
[00:46:58] Alex: Space is too busy.
[00:46:59] Brian: Yeah. But like, as Troy pointed out, people will continue to make media. They're always gonna make it.
[00:47:03] Alex: And music, there used to be, I think on Steam, which is one of big, PC video game stores, I think just like 15, 10, 15 years ago, there were 320 games released a year or something like that. And, today it's, every day there's a, that many games being released and games are inherently more complex to make than most pieces of media because there's so many parts to it.
I feel that the future, issue is not about. Media creation, but it's about curation and discovery. And I think the people who are going to make a big dent are the people who, use tools like the new AI tools to solve that problem rather than, how many journalists can we hire?
media company of the future has no journalists. That's all I'm saying.
And hopefully no advertising. More of Troy's friends are gonna get upset by, dude, this got me a boat, man. yesterday I tried to read a website on my screen and literally there was a video playing at the top and a banner at the bottom.
And the screen, real estate in the middle was the size of my thumb. And that's where I could read the article.
[00:48:03] Brian: And see, you're like, let me scroll. And then like
[00:48:06] Alex: The
[00:48:07] Brian: player and it came with
[00:48:08] Alex: exactly. I. And you know, that shit probably was sold on some yacht at Khan by people saying, high advertising, saving media.
Fuck it.
[00:48:16] Brian: literally. Yes. Actually
it's funny cuz I pitched that coffee,
[00:48:22] Troy: I pitched
[00:48:23] Alex: so if somebody wants to make an Alex blocker and block these truths out. Be my guest
[00:48:28] Brian: they never got back to me. So we can leave it in.
[00:48:30] Troy: The irony is, I think, you invented that ad product, Alex.
[00:48:34] Alex: Well, what do you think? Why do you think I feel so horrible?
[00:48:37] Troy: I think we covered that topic of gu. Should
we now move to good, good product or are we gonna
keep this segment?
[00:48:42] Brian: good
product segment.
[00:48:43] Good Product
[00:48:45] Troy: I'm, I want to string three things together today.
[00:48:48] Alex: Shit.
[00:48:48] Troy: the first is I love software that anticipates, life's little troubles and helps you out. And the other day I was in Brooklyn Heights and I forgot where I parked my car, which is like sad because it means like I'm getting old.
I was like, where did I put the car? And I opened up Google Maps and it told me.
[00:49:07] Brian: Oh, I've had that. I love that. I had, that I remember in Sicily once it saved me.
[00:49:11] Troy: yeah, so I thought that was a really helpful little thing. It knew that I had been driving. It planted a little flag where I had stopped and all I had to do, and I didn't. I wasn't aware of the feature. I was just like, oh my God, what street did I leave the car on? Then there was a little thing there that said, here's your car.
So I appreciated that. A second one that I'll just add because that was brief, was, I think it's hard for people to buy art. Years and years ago. I used to live near this sort of gallery area in Toronto and I would walk my dog, down past these sort of emergent cool new galleries that had come up on Queen Street West.
I used to, when I had spare money, I would buy art from them. I've always found it hard to find good art. I want to support artists and I wanna buy art. this week I used Satchi Art, I think they license the Satchi name. It's basically a global marketplace for art where you can get on and there's a tremendous amount of supplies.
So you can kind of find really good stuff and you can explore artists. And there's lots of little. Sort of curatorial, packages that they put together. I bought a few pieces of art there and I thought it was a great service and it's, I haven't received it yet, so I'll keep you posted, but it's called Satchi Art.
I like that. And the last one I sent to you guys, which I think is kind of hilarious and really maybe is a nice way to, complete this episode, it's called Just Comment ai. And it's a browser plugin. You can find it@justcomment.ai. it's a plugin that you add to your browser that will. write a bunch of junk, in response to Twitter posts or posts on LinkedIn, and I'll just read the page and create your, thoughtful comment without you having to do anything.
You just put you just put your cursor into the field and now you can tweet your reply to anything. Hey, Elon Musk, great to hear you're tackling two serious issues, blah, blah, blah. so now you can, you can participate in social media without, without the effort. That's a nice idea.
[00:51:08] Alex: oh, this feels both incredible and, terrible for social media. I, I call these like fracking technologies. When we run out of, things to suck out of the earth, we invent fracking so we can just tick, just suck out the stuff between the grains of sand.
social media has lost all its value. So we're just going to completely suck it dry by littering the field with AI comments.
99% of the internet will be AI generated in
five years.
[00:51:32] Brian: I see this is to me is the opportunities because this is a continuation. all of the technologies and the optimization techniques are, have led to this moment where before Troy, like you were saying, it was really difficult to start a media company or to publish and, and then that went away, and then it became, the only thing that was standing between you and starting a media business was having something to say.
And so now even that can be optimized and outsourced and created by bots. We're just gonna have bots creating content for bots. And that to me leads to the opportunity to have authentic human conversation that is actually furthered by bots. Not just created by bots.
I mean, who wants that?
Does anyone want that?
[00:52:11] Alex: Want what the immediate thing of being able to respond to every
tweet.
[00:52:16] Brian: comments.ai content
[00:52:18] Alex: Absolutely not. Nobody wants to read
it, but the
internet is, but the internet is full of stuff that people write that nobody wants to read. That's the internet.
[00:52:26] Brian: there's some friction into actually creating, to go back to our previous episode into actually creating that kind ofri, you actually have to like, type out words and eh, it's tied to your name I've seen this with executives having,outsource their tweets to people, which I think is the saddest thing
possible.
[00:52:42] Alex: It is,
[00:52:43] Brian: I Can you think of anything sadder than hiring someone to write your tweets?
[00:52:46] Alex: no,
[00:52:47] Brian: me as a writer,
Troy, or quiet. You don't you even hired someone, have you?
[00:52:50] Alex: you've made it,
[00:52:50] Brian: Is it? No, I then again, this is, this is probably me as journalist type.
[00:52:55] Troy: is it a long way away from having someone write your note to staff? If you're a CEO of a big company, I used to
have a person that would write stuff, but then I would edit it heavily.
[00:53:05] Brian: I wouldn't let our marketing, you know how they, they send the sort of mail merge that would come from me or something telling you to go to a programmatic summit. I made myself write this, the marketing team was like, we'll write it. I'm like, no, if you're sending it out under my name, I'm gonna write it.
[00:53:18] Troy: Anyway, I'd like to, can, can we end the episode of something uplifting? Is there anything good that
happened to you this week, Brian?
[00:53:25] Alex: got fired,
[00:53:26] Brian: Carlson got a shit can Don Lemon. whose husband was involved in a real estate transaction with me, has
also been decapitated.
[00:53:34] Alex: humble brag there.
[00:53:35] Brian: It's the only what I had of like
lived somewhere.
[00:53:38] Alex: Don Lemon's husband did some big
investment. That is interesting.
[00:53:44] Brian: I didn't even know.
[00:53:45] Alex: Chelsea Pertti's, Jonah Purdy's sister. there's like a lot going on today
that's all uplifting to me. there hasn't been any uplifting, news really. outside of the, the Tucker cows and stuff for me.
[00:53:55] Brian: I think it's like actually it could be a positive, like another end of an era, but I don't know if it will be an end of an era. Like cable news is a whole mess. We can get into that some other time.
[00:54:04] Alex: yeah.
[00:54:05] Brian: I mean, I don't know if it's news. It's just cable. It's just this shouting stuff
[00:54:09] Alex: But once
again, It's 4 million. people
[00:54:11] Brian: I
know
[00:54:12] Alex: that show. It's not a lot of people. I don't get
why these shows are so important.
[00:54:16] Troy: Hold it when Gail King is doing an afternoon show with Charles Barkley on CNN
in afternoon.
[00:54:21] Alex: It's called King Charles,
[00:54:23] Brian: Yeah,
[00:54:23] Alex: is great.
[00:54:24] Brian: I think Charles could be a pretty good at tv. I mean, he obviously is very good at tv, but I think like he doesn't have to just do sports
[00:54:30] Alex: I agree.
[00:54:30] Brian: and he's like an interesting character because he's, he doesn't neatly line up. I understand why CNN wanted him. He doesn't neatly line up with the sort of, and I think that's what, if there's any thread between the Don Lemon and, Tucker Carlson, it's they were of an era of, Trump sucking the oxygen out of the room.
Now I assume we're gonna go right back to the same thing, but who knows?
[00:54:51] Alex: wait till Trump
comes back. We're
[00:54:53] Brian: He is
[00:54:53] Alex: about him.
[00:54:54] Outro
[00:54:54] Troy: stay tuned. for our, AI powered and deeply human, quite flawed new media company that you heard about here first, cuz it, we'd never discussed it before.
[00:55:04] Alex: That's right.
[00:55:05] Brian: true.
[00:55:05] Alex: Uh, all happening in real time.
[00:55:07] Troy: Yeah, we appreciate your support and hope that you, like what we're about to create.
[00:55:11] Brian: Yeah,
and we're not against advertising
I'm not
Brian at the
[00:55:15] Troy: we're
gonna have amazing,
amazing
amazing swag.
[00:55:18] Alex: As everyone knows, we all look forward to advertising in our lives.
We do.
[00:55:22] Brian: commercial art.
[00:55:22] Alex: Yeah, exactly.
[00:55:23] Troy: well
Thank
[00:55:24] Alex: later. 


PVA S1E34
PVA S1E34
[00:00:00] Alex: Hey, how are you?
[00:00:01] Troy: I'm fine. Thanks. It's nice to see you.
[00:00:02] Alex: What have you been up to?
[00:00:04] Troy: Well, I was almost injured in a boating accident, but
[00:00:07] Alex: That sounds like succession. What? What happened? We, or like a white lotus,
[00:00:11] Brian: Are we gonna talk about your boat now?
[00:00:13] Troy: no,
[00:00:13] Alex: to step off the big boat to get onto a smaller boat
[00:00:16] Brian: What kind of boat do you have?
[00:00:17] Troy: I don't want to talk about it.
[00:00:18] Brian: You brought it up.
[00:00:20] Troy: No, I
[00:00:21] Brian: You could have brought up literally anything.
[00:00:23] Troy: Um, in other
news,someone sent feedback that
I got upset about it. Actually, someone came at Alex again,
I won't say who it was. Yeah, cuz he was upset that he didn't know who Jonah was.
[00:00:34] Brian: Oh
yeah.
[00:00:35] Troy: And he was, he was like, maybe he's not up for the podcast.
[00:00:38] Alex: maybe not. Maybe
[00:00:40] Troy: yeah. I said, I think Alec Spring's an important, point of view.
And he said, I don't think you need the Austrian point of view.
[00:00:46] Alex: So like diminutive. Great.
[00:00:48] Brian: I got some feedback too, it's actually a correction that I am not actually at all, like cousin Greg, but that Troy is very much Tom WOM scans. That was the feedback. It was texted me. I swear to God. I got it.
[00:01:01] Alex: you have that low sultry voice.
[00:01:02] Brian: just so everybody fucking relaxes, I now know who Chelsea Pertti's brother is.
[00:01:07] Troy: I don't think we ever positioned you as a media expert, Alex. You're good at a lot of things.
That's not your,
[00:01:12] Alex: you know, I just do the lesser stuff, like building the platforms and making sure everything works and,
[00:01:17] Troy: yeah. You wrote the song. It's important. You wrote the song, you designed the
[00:01:20] Alex: exactly. I'm here for comic relief. Maybe I'm the Greg.
[00:01:23] Brian: possible.
[00:01:25] Welcome
[00:01:25] Brian:
Welcome to People versus Algorithms, a conversation about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Marcy. I write the Rebooting Newsletter and host the Rebooting Show podcast. Each week I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young, writer of the People Versus Algorithms Newsletter.
And Alex Schleifer, former head of Design at Airbnb, founder of Universal Entities. The commanding heights of the digital economy are control of the interface. It's the interface through which the vast expanses of the tangle of data that makes up the digital economy are accessible. Think of the most powerful digital businesses, and they are in essence, interface businesses.
Google is a de facto interface for accessing information. Facebook is the de facto social interface, and TikTok is increasingly the de facto entertainment interface. Publishers long controlled the interface to their products. They could manipulate that interface for various purposes, including much to Alex's chagrin, to insert commercial messages in the form of advertising.
The shift to the web brought about a change in which publishers gave away the interface to tech companies, or more likely tech companies took that away from them. That loss is still felt today, and I believe it is part of a recent wave of nostalgia for return to the homepage. After all, if you lose control of the interface, lose control of your distribution.
And as Troy noted last week, that's when media businesses start to go sideways. So this week we discuss how the interface is about to change yet again as we enter into a new era, likely defined by the application of artificial intelligence. Alex walks us through the practical implications of this shift to a new interface, and Troy builds on that with his own take about how the media business will react to this change in how people interface with content.
We also discussed my lifetime achievement award of having Elon Musk reply to my tweet about Twitter. move to append so-called community notes to advertisements that add a fuller picture to the rosy claims and ads. I know advertisers would never exaggerate or give a biased review of the pros and cons of their products.
And finally, we did consider whether Living Plus is a good product. If you enjoy this episode and I hope you do, please leave a rating and a review on Apple or Spotify. apparently helps people discover this podcast send in your feedback and comments. I'm brian@therebooting.com.
[00:04:02] Welcome End
[00:04:04] Brian: I actually wanna start with you Alex, cuz you were alarming me at least. Maybe Troy too. But this weekend, you had totally red pilled, Troy asked you if you were high, when you were talking about AI because you were like going like four leaps ahead.
And I think it's important to talk about this cuz I had a meeting with a PVA listener and a media executive this morning. and. He was just going on and on about AI. And every meeting I have, people go on on about the possibilities of it,
And then a lot of times the conversations I have, they sort of run up against okay, now I'm over my skis with what the reality is with the technology and where we are right now.
And I got that feeling when, when we were discussing this through text, because you were describing the experience of comparing like hotel rooms. I was left saying, so what? So
let's just go through this, hotel room example because I think it's instructive of where
we are
and
[00:04:52] Troy: I wanna nitpick this for a second.
When I say in a text threat, Alex, are you high? You don't respond with, what do you mean?
[00:04:59] Brian: no. Cuz that's a perfect, if someone was high, that's what they would say.
[00:05:02] Troy: over here, what we do, when someone says, are you high? they spar with you. They joke around. it's all joking. It's not like I was
accusing you of being high and chatting with Brian endlessly over the
[00:05:12] Alex: oh, no, I just,didn't understand the feedback. Maybe it's because I'm European. I think it's maybe important and interesting right now to kind of, make the conversation a little bit narrower. So that's is why I like talking about the travel planning example.
I think it's very easy to jump into the future and talk about the demise of,all the white collar work andAnd there's a lot of. Value creation and destruction that's going to happen around that. But fine. I don't think that actually helps anyone really make decisions.
the way I started talking about ai, ensuring it to people is in much clearer examples of things that used to be annoyances or maybe not even possible before. The travel example is a good one. We had these two hotel rooms, and every hotel has their own fucking taxonomy, their own way of structuring the data.
And we were looking at two hotel rooms that had all these different names, attached to them. And, it was a long list of shit, we were trying to parse it, figure out which one we would get. And then I said, well, let me try something. And I literally copy and paste it into, Chad G PT saying, okay, consider this RuMe and consider this room B.
[00:06:11] Troy: Can you find the key differences between RuMe and room B? And it did in a way that was very substantial. This one slightly larger. This one has a,walking closet or whatever, things that I had trouble parsing from. What was there? You mean? One said closet and the other said walk-in closet.
[00:06:26] Alex: the data wasn't organized in a way that was easy to compare for any human being. we would've had to kind of like, try to kind of contextualize what was
[00:06:33] Troy: When you say we, is that the royal we or were you
[00:06:35] Alex: no, my wife and I looking, looking at this thing, And she's really uninterested in all this AI shit I'm excited about, but in this case, she was like, oh, that was genuinely useful.
And it went from us looking at this for a few minutes, trying to figure it
[00:06:47] Brian: Okay, but you're just looking at like a website,
[00:06:50] Alex: okay, yes, I'm looking at a website precisely. and so the way I would like to explain it, imagine if you will, there was a world for a long time you could use MapQuest on the internet.
but then Google Maps gets released, And you could say, well, Google Maps was It wasn't that transformational compared to MapQuest, but Google Map added all this realtime data, added an API to it, and created a whole new area, layer of tooling for the internet that allowed a whole new series of businesses to exist that couldn't before for example, Airbnb. Airbnb exists because of Google Maps. Uber. Uber exists because of Google Maps, And whatever kind of mapping system came after that. And that because you had a tool that allowed a new contextualized layer of data to be integrated into any idea you had. And so things that literally cost you a hundred million dollars to get to
Having a MAP system and and tracking stuff like that. you could come up with an idea and build something in a day. And what AI does is that it applies that to any type of information and any type of content. I mean, audio your visual as well, but specifically text.
there are so many things that we use every day right now that can be disrupted by that. when I was booking my flights and I had a multi-leg flight, an AI could, do that and return a bunch of, very clear information, the hotel stuff, whatever. And to me what this does is very quickly users, people are going to get so used to this mode of working that the other form is going to feel archaic.
and it is going to happen really quickly. and what we can do today is already. Transformational because it changes the relationship we have with the interface. And that is huge because so much of the way the internet works is based on monetizing interface, whether it's putting an ad right, which is the stuff that you guys are passionate about and a lot of our listeners are passionate about.
love ads. Yeah. We skip forward to the ads when we watch tv. the other way is like the fact that companies entire businesses are built around providing an interface to some sort of esoteric data, kayak, even Google, so when we're talking about that disruption of how much of our world that we exist in, that we talk about when we talk about media is actually like the business of interface.
we provide access to this type of content and recontextualize it and all of that has the potential to change really quickly. So while Maps was. Here's a bunch of things that were hard to do that are much easier to do now that allows us to rethink some of these businesses, That's one thing.
This is more like, oh, maybe we don't need these businesses. Maybe these things become just generalized queries. maybe United doesn't need their website anymore. how does that change United business models when they try to pitch you and sell stuff? this is near
term.
[00:09:25] Troy: points. Hey, just as we move through this, I want to make one sort of snarky, off-handed comment about the AI guy, open AI guy When I pushed him on a couple things, he said, well, we don't know where this is gonna be in five years. He said, the goal of our company is to pursue agi.
And I was surprised by him saying that.
[00:09:43] Brian: Yeah, we keep that in the closet.
[00:09:45] Troy: what? Keep, keep what in the closet?
[00:09:47] Brian: AGI stuff, cuz that's what goes to the, it's gonna end humanity stuff. Just, let's just focus
on like making Alex be able to get his like fancy hotel room quicker.
[00:09:57] Troy: yeah,
he wasn't very forthcoming
[00:09:59] Alex: I'm trying to give, so the AGI stuff is, is a rabbit hole. Right. the generalized intelligence, but what, what I, what? Yeah,
[00:10:05] Troy: can I just pause you for a second Please?
Cuz that was a long, I've never given that much time in the intro to go on and on and you made great
[00:10:13] Brian: I know that's your role.
[00:10:15] Alex: What we're gonna edit it down so I sound
[00:10:18] Troy: okay. Yeah. So here's the thing. This point that you made, I think you made it in the thread that much of what we do on the internet is interface.
It's interface considered broadly. It's information as interfaces, such as buttons or sliders or input fields is interface. But tons of what we do, Google included. But every comparison engine, every marketplace. Seamless is an interface
to restaurants. Airbnb was, as you pointed out, Expedia is, certainly all of the affiliate information we get where we compare two or three or four or five products to understand how they differ.
There's the side of it that's just sort of data analysis. That's a huge part of it. If particular, if you're a knowledgeable consumer. just being able to see that stuff side by side is really important. And then there's the sort of craft side of it, which is, this felt good. I enjoyed using this, this was surprising.
The brand is great. The product has has an elegant feel to it. Yeah, so I think it's a great, great point anybody that occupies that interface layer should be very concerned
[00:11:14] Brian: But it's, it's how you define interface, right? Because interface can be, Everything. I
mean,
[00:11:19] Alex: is
[00:11:19] Brian: are an interface.
[00:11:20] Alex: let's talk about it. This way, it's the human computer interface. It's like the middlemen who provide access to some sort of layer of data. and within that interface, there are behaviors like using a touch screen, pressing a button, and there's frictions applied to that, that allow you to make an upsell or put an ad or do whatever you want.
and an immense amount of time is spent and attention is spent on these interfaces. And what happens when the expectation is that, that no longer needs to be the case, you
know?
[00:11:47] Brian: like, thousands and thousands of companies. That's just about every company in the digital economy is an interface to a bunch of unstructured data. They're gonna structure the data and then present it to you.
[00:11:57] Alex: which is why I'm freaking out, which is why I'm saying, okay, let's, let's take the Uber example. taxis were upended by Uber. because Uber decided to use Google Maps as an interface to connecting people to cars, created that, this direct interface between them. Sure, we pay attention to all the societal stuff and the gig economy and stuff like that, but that's at a core, that's the interface that happened and then upended the whole taxi industry. now if you can do that with just about anything, every business is, is open for competition.
[00:12:25] Troy: it's true.
Did
you just start freaking out this week out? You said you're freaking out. I love that. Are you freaking out?
[00:12:30] Alex:
[00:12:30] Troy: When
did the
freak out start?
[00:12:32] Alex: let's just be, let's honest.
[00:12:33] Brian: Were you high?
[00:12:34] Alex: I just. I just did this simple thing and I said, this is so great that it works. This is really, profound that we can do that. And Brian, like many of the people in my life go like, eh, it just
[00:12:45] Brian: I said it was incremental
because alls it did was add a step and it gave you some confidence. And I do not believe that that is quote unquote transformational. I believe that is quote unquote, incremental.
[00:12:55] Troy: you know what I, I want to get in the middle of this cuz I'll direct traffic here. Brian, do you ever freak out about things? What's the last thing you freak freaked out about?
[00:13:02] Brian: No, I don't freak out about things like, you mean about things like
not in like
[00:13:06] Troy: things that are amazing or significant or seem to be, pointing to a very different future. Have you freaked out? Are you freaking out
[00:13:14] Brian: No, I don't. No, I'm not. And mostly because I think it's really difficult and I think this is sort of wrapped up in, that's why I wanted to start with you, Alex, on this because I think one of the problems with a lot of this AI stuff is so many different things have come out of, broadly speaking, Silicon Valley that have been wrapped in this freak out hype cycle that have totally not been worth it.
you know what I mean? there's a lot of things that have totally been transformational and there are other things that have been complete, nothing burgers and have gotten the same treatment. I guess in having always in my career sort of been on the like media side, the New York side versus the Silicon Valley side, after a little while there's a little bit of a boy who cries wolf kind of thing.
Now I believe that AI in the long run is gonna be quote unquote transformational. I think in the short term it's gonna be in many cases like incremental.
[00:14:02] Troy: I freaked out last, night when
[00:14:04] Alex: uh, that's why, that's why you were asking us about freaking out because
you wanted to make it about yourself.
[00:14:08] Troy: no.
[00:14:10] Brian: sorry, I
[00:14:11] Troy: I freaked out when my interface was like half an hour late with my food.
[00:14:14] Alex: Right. I'm sure you did.
[00:14:16] Brian: Yeah. But this just added a step to your process, right? That is not transformational.
[00:14:20] Alex: no, it didn't add a step. It removed many steps of cognitive load to my process. the fact that the fucking crypto disaster happened just before that is not helping. You know
[00:14:29] Troy: Oh, I
freaked out. I freaked out about crypto. I'm
[00:14:32] Brian: three, Troy told me, I remember in Soho you were like, you need to take this seriously. I, I got like the dad lecture from Troy because I was being too dismissive of crypto.
[00:14:41] Alex: I have a hypothesis around that. the people who are like. closer to the metal, as they say, they like to build stuff and find use cases. We're having a really hard time with crypto and the people who are closer to the money had a really easy time with crypto cuz because
they were
like, ah, I can see this making money.
And then the people building
were like, what the fuck
[00:15:01] Brian: in this? Maybe I am cousin Greg.
[00:15:03] Alex: Oh, well yeah, you're the guy stuck in the middle and
[00:15:07] Brian: We're just trying to survive to the next day, because I wanna talk about agents because when I, read about agents, I have not had access to any of this. I'm like, okay, that is transformational. being able to say, I wanna find a hotel in Miami for the weekend of
this weekend and it has to be on the beach and I'm not paying any more than $500.
And there can't be kids all over the pool and all these other things. And the agent will just and accomplish this task.
[00:15:33] Troy: I like kids around the pool. What's wrong with having kids around the
[00:15:36] Brian: it depends on what you want. It depends on what you want. If you don't have kids, it's a little weird to want kids in the pool,
[00:15:41] Alex: That's true. but
[00:15:43] Brian: even in California.
[00:15:44] Alex: the thing with agents, what I was doing manually is what an agent would do. if you know how these agents are going to be built, you can plot a really short line between now and the time where you just have agents doing that stuff. agents are not hypothetical.
We're just waiting for people to build interesting interfaces to these agents. and that's coming, that's the plugins. That's, the kind of smart chat GPT based, tests that people are doing.the only thing I was showing you is Hey, I can put these pieces together and recreate what an agent could do, and the output is fantastic.
Now, somebody that knows how to code Python could do this and turn it into a Chrome plugin
[00:16:21] Brian: but
explain like an agent. So, so explain the agents and what agents will be able, because to me, an agent as an interface is very profound, more profound than a chat box, instead of a search box.
[00:16:32] Alex: to me, an agent is kind of a learning model. Powered, let's say chat, G P t we everybody's talking about, but like a chat G p T powered,agent that can go out into the internet and perform tasks on your behalf, potentially,
you know, knowing your
credit card or whatever,
[00:16:46] Troy: it's an automated prompt making machine, Brian. It does multiple prompts so you don't have to, an
agent is someone who works and strings together multiple commands in a task that accomplishes something on your behalf.
[00:17:00] Alex: and has some form of API or even just browser access the internet and systems
[00:17:06] Brian: so it's like a TaskRabbit but like
than
ikea.
[00:17:09] Troy: With like
a great personality. Now
I'm freaking out. freaking out.
[00:17:12] Brian: What have you had bad experiences with task rabbits?
Some of them
are
pretty cool. Oh really? I had a dude who came in and put together a IKEA armoire. He arrived and I was like having breakfast and I had dinner and the dude was still there.
[00:17:26] Alex: Wow.
[00:17:27] Brian: was just surround, I think he stopped, being a TaskRabbit after that job.
[00:17:30] Troy: You know what I like to do with IKEA furniture is make it without the instructions, then it's like a game.
[00:17:36] Brian: Yeah. Get high and then just try to put together an armir
[00:17:39] Troy: Yeah. And then freak out.
[00:17:40] Alex: I like to do it. I like to do everything
[00:17:42] Brian: Go back to the ai.
[00:17:43] Troy: Me too.
I like to drive a boat without instructions, which is not a good idea.
[00:17:47] Alex: yeah, that sounds terrible, but, what you want an agent to do today. let me give you that exercise. Try to do it manually step by step, So the logging into the site and getting some of the data out, putting it back into the chat G p t box.
This allows you to prototype essentially the flow that an agent would perform. It'll still save you time, But a lot of these steps, like,me copy and pasting the thing, into the chat g p t room and kind of setting up that prompt.
That's all stuff that the agent could do. On top of that, you can do very focused agents, that are like learning your behaviors, learning what you like, like I said, like they might have access to your credit card or login numbers and stuff like that. But the thing is, imagine this as a, this big, what do you call it when it's like a big, machine that hadthings fall into each other.
Gold Rub Goldberg
[00:18:31] Brian: machine.
[00:18:32] Alex: imagine like a ru big rub Goldberg machine, In the future that marble will go all along by itself until the end. But right now what you need to do is to move it one, one step to the other, and you can see how it will work and it already works. So that's why I'm, very optimistic that in the next three to six months, we will have very focused businesses on that.
AndI've gone from freaking out about the a g I stuff and the grand scheme of things, which, we should still pay attention to, into thinking like, what are like specific problems that this thing can really
[00:18:57] Brian: Yeah.
[00:18:58] Troy: Which is to say that, Brian, you're right about what you said in the text thread, Brian, that Alex has flipped completely. He's now very pro ai. He's not worried about the thing over the White House that he was a few weeks ago. The,
the
[00:19:10] Brian: he just wants his hotel room book for him.
I
[00:19:13] Troy: Yeah.
[00:19:13] Alex: I'm just trying to be productive about it at this stage. yeah, I, I think we need
[00:19:18] Troy: Well,
[00:19:18] Alex: with it and see what
[00:19:19] Brian: But let's, let's
let's spin this
forward to the media.
[00:19:22] Troy: it to media. Okay.
[00:19:23] Brian: let's do it. Let's, because what does this mean? Cuz media is, I mean, again, interface where we're talking about it, it's very broad. I mean, media is an interface to information, it's an interface to culture, I guess at some
[00:19:34] Alex: Yeah. Yeah. A newspaper was an interface.
[00:19:36] Troy: All right.
Do you want me to address this one,
[00:19:39] Brian: Yeah. I want you
to address it, Troy,
[00:19:41] Alex: Chelsea Pertti's,
brother made an interface.
[00:19:43] Troy: Yeah. Alex, are you finished?
[00:19:44] Alex: no man. I'm gonna talk this whole
[00:19:46] Brian: He's wiping his brow.
[00:19:48] Troy: He's sweating. He's freaking out. Okay, so, okay. What did you ask me about Brian? So, I, I wrote about it a little bit this week in a very simple way. I, I try to, anyway, which is the kind of dawn of the summarized button. And the summarized button, like Alex's hotel room comparison, AI thingy is a good
Simple to understand use case, So I started using it a lot and I was using it on this artifact, which I've spoke of too many times for its utility. But basically I could read any article underneath of the type size button is something called Summarize. And I get three bullets back,
there's too much to read, too much to consume. I have lots of interests. Now I can press the button and I can, Kohl's. Actually, they call this in Canada, Kohl's notes here. They call it cliff notes. I can cliff notes anything instantly. And I thought it was incredibly useful. And also more than that, it was more than just being a little useful button.
It says something about how we're gonna consume media in the future and it basically turns anything into the format you want it to be. So we'll talk about its connection to formats in a second. Alex just mentioned that a huge swath of what we do online amounts to interface. And I think that's right.
So the entire affiliate industry is interface to products. Comparison engines are interface to flights, insurance, credit cards, whatever. Seamless is interface to in your neighborhood. when we access media, I thought about this for a sec. We go to a homepage and we see a list of stories. the interface to media was often Facebook,
Or it could be Google. that homepage interface puts content through an editorial lens. or like a structure of some sort by, category of information, So if you go to CK you kinda look at information through that or through a human lens. I know this person, I like this writer through Google, we look at information through kind of a q and a lens.
I have a problem, I'm looking for an answer. all of these require that you do a lot of work yourself. That's what Alex was complaining about. So what if that interface could do much of the work for you? It would definitely advantage that could feed it data, that were closer to the transaction.
if you were hanza and you had the data of all of the, seats and flights and information, and you could feed that into the interface and not require a layer on top of it, you wouldn't have to pay Expedia. The interface could do a lot of work for you more efficiently. It would also create a colossally large business for someone like an open ai,
and I think it's interesting when editorial content gets compressed or summarized, Or
point of view content. if you could have buttons and you will have buttons. These buttons are coming. One button says summarize or distill. Another button says, compare to other stuff that I've read.
Another button says, contextualize or provide additional sources. Another button says, shop, and it tells me where to find the stuff. Or another button says, review this. And it shows all the, information around people, pros and cons, et cetera. And in the end, there's a compression of the interface layer.
The middle gets really, really compressed. It really is ultimately a deep, deep, deep type of personalization that's been elusive to this point on the internet where there was no personalization. They talked about it at the beginning. When I started on the internet, the promise was all about building deep personal profiles
so that you could have a, it was that Peppers and Rogers thing or whatever.
One, the one-to-one future was called at the time, but at the time we couldn't, we had no mechanism for it. We didn't have enough content, we didn't have enough profile data and we certainly didn't have the algorithm. it's a really interesting time that the format becomes your format when media that's too long, unless it's really,
Suits the way you want to consume information because it channels a feeling or it tells a story or it brings an emotion that it's just gonna get compressed with the compressed button, and that's another really important use case.
[00:23:34] Brian: Yeah, I think a lot of times speaking from the sort of creator side, I hate the word creator, but from the person who's like writing something I'll just say is, you end up like sniffing your own farts and thinking that people wanna want to be on for the journey in reality, they really wanna get something done and they want to extract a few things from what you've made.
a lot of times, I think in media, you end up getting in the way. I keep going back to recipe content,
right? to me it's the perfect example of how the misplaced incentives of the internet has everything kind of terrible. you cannot get through a recipe, webpage without getting bombarded.
Not only with, endless, autoplay videos and affiliate links and shopping lists that I don't know who would use. but you, you end up having to go through all of this backstory that you don't want. The fact that there's a jump to recipes button, it kind of tells you a little something about what's coming in the future to me, maybe I'm alone, but I always hit the jump to recipes button.
I don't care about the backstory. and I think everyone in a lot of forms of media are gonna want to hit the jump to recipes button.
[00:24:32] Alex: Yeah, I use an app called Pest, which basically you can send the article to and it just sucks out all the recipe content.
[00:24:40] Brian: wait, wasn't that a controversial one, didn't they? Like they came out and then they, shut it down. The guy was like all apologetic. He got a bunch of angry tweets and he was too sensitive.
[00:24:48] Alex: I use it daily,
[00:24:49] Troy: no, but when you think about that, that that type of compression that Alex is, I mean, it's just gonna happen everywhere.
That's my point.
[00:24:55] Alex: but I want to ask you this as media people, it feels even less defensible than previous Onslaughts, Where, you could kind of defend yourself against Google, just like sucking up all your information and, showing it in the search results because there was at least even like some copyright, reasons.
But when you, something gets digested, especially around news and articles, that's fair play, You can just show that for free. the artifact example is interesting because they're also adding comments it, And now they have this kind of summarized thing. At what point do you stop even going to the website and they don't need to pay anyone anything.
[00:25:31] Brian: Yeah, I mean this has been
going on forever.
[00:25:33] Troy: that's why I highlight it.
it, is a manifestation of something that's happened for a long time. But I would argue that adding summary on top, building comments in, maybe they have in their mind a, a business model in the future where there's some kind of extra surface area for advertising.
I don't see it. right now, you're a publisher. You enter into that agreement because somehow you believe that your ads are carried into that experience, which they are. I mean, arguably you still deliver ad impressions and you want to build your audience and your reach up, but in the end, it's not great for publishers.
The whole, the whole extraction of value in the middle is not good.
[00:26:06] Brian: Yeah. Shocking
conclusion
there.
[00:26:08] Alex: so many of these articles, the most like comments is this side sucks. It's full of ads.
[00:26:13] Brian: Not with the freaking ads again. that's why I always say it's like an acceleration. Cuz I, I went to the Ben Smith's book launch party, last Thursday, the New York Times wrote about it, in comparison to the time thing, which I thought was actually a clever frame.
But I ran into, I actually had never met him in person, do you know the odd lots? The Bloomberg podcast, Joe Weisenthal, Weisenthal,
[00:26:31] Troy: I know the podcast is popular.
[00:26:33] Brian: it's really popular. And I told him, I was like, I really like your podcast He's like, yeah, good. Thanks man. And he was like, wait.
Oh, he goes, in 2012 you wrote some really bad shit about us, a business insider. I was like, oh my God. He remembers a decade later. And the reason what he was remembering was I was pissed cuz business Insider used to constantly take our reported content that reporters were, getting sources and everything like this and they would strip out the salacious facts and, republish just the, the parts that people wanted on their website and they would have 10 times the traffic.
Cause they used to actually show, how many people viewed the stories. And I noticed that they had would ha get 10 times more traffic
than we would. And we did the work. And I was like, well I'm kind of pissed about that.
But I was very impressed that he saved that for a decade.
Anyway, AI's gonna make that every single piece of content is gonna be that way, right.
[00:27:24] Alex: and if you even consider, not to stretch the analogy too much, but an article and the format of an article, I mean, we've talked about formats. That's an interface in itself, And it's structured in a specific way to fit on a page or fit around advertising. and I think it's important to think about what are you going to tolerate?
what are people going to tolerate in the future? Because that's going to be the crucial thing here. And I think over time, people are going to tolerate, the shitty ad, the shitty experience, the article above the recipe, less and less, and open up a lot of space for people who built interfaces that bypass those things.
So if your business model is based on friction and all that type of stuff, about it,
you
know,
[00:28:01] Troy: I have good news for you.
[00:28:04] Alex: what is it?
[00:28:05] Troy: I think we're about to build the media company of the future straight to the vein. No nonsense cannot be compressed. Comes at you. with relevance and insight in short, compact missives
[00:28:18] Brian: is this? Like
content nuggets. This is like Kendall's pitch.
[00:28:20] Troy: yeah, it's gonna be better than living. Plus,
[00:28:23] Brian: We already got the living plus later.
[00:28:25] Troy: So what does that mean? I think for a while, media has not been able to control the interface, I don't wanna build the next media company through a webpage, although I'll have a webpage if you really need it. definitely don't want to build it through the app store cuz the app store is a racket. I want to build it through a chat interface that everybody uses on their phone. I want to build it through how we communicate just organically in our little triumphant here, this group of us where we naturally throw content.
back and forth inside of a text window. that's what I want to do. And, and I still want to have the thoughtful, kind of essay that accompanies it. And that is maybe for some, not for others, but I think there's a really interesting little model here to build. look forward to getting Alex to build it for me.
[00:29:08] Alex: Yeah.
[00:29:09] Brian: it, Alex.
yeah, I just wonder like whether. I don't, I don't know what that looks like. can
[00:29:13] Troy: I can't tell you, everything about it because you'll steal the idea.
[00:29:16] Brian: can a publisher control The interface? I feel like that's already passed, so when, when Facebook controlled the interface to, publishing content, it was a bargain that a bunch of publishers made. They said, we're giving up control.
We're not even really sure if we're gonna be able to monetize this stuff. But the numbers are great. this is way bigger distribution than we'd ever get. But the problem is, the interface of Facebook ended up commoditizing each and every one of their brands. Everything looked the frigging same on Facebook, same with Google.
Every link looks the same. And that's why like, you see
[00:29:45] Troy: No, ours is gonna be distinguished by, the content itself, not by how it looks.
It's
gonna feel different. we're gonna make the fentanyl of a media company.
[00:29:54] Brian: That'll definitely feel different. one of the other things that came up, people were joking, like, oh, what's next? in publishing, I'm like, haven't you heard the homepage is back and you talk about people giving up and going back to a pastoral life.
There's this idea. and Jonah Pertti, Chelsea Pertti's brother, had come out with another one of his future of media missives, which I was like, not the time pump the breaks, Jonah. I'm like, this is not the time. People are not gonna give this the hearing probably it deserves.
But it was about the homepage. look, I like a good homepage. I really do. I like, designing a homepage and what it says about a, brand and stuff like this homepage is not coming back. It's not, that's not gonna be the interface. It's
hard for me to believe that will be an interface for media.
[00:30:35] Alex: I have until very lately been one of those people that feels that there is. Space for print magazine in people's lives.
[00:30:42] Brian: I love print.
[00:30:42] Alex: and I still keep them and, know, I'll buy them when I go in an airport, but I realize that I never read them in my day to day. And I think it's mostly people who have vinyl record collections, but end up mostly using Spotify.
[00:30:52] Brian: I think there's a lot of that. isn't the vinyl record business bigger now than it was pre
[00:30:57] Alex: right,
because it's a great
present, not because you're buying
souvenirs. Yeah.
in video games you can buy, a 200 version of the video game that's the collector's edition, and it comes with a bust and a box the software is a code that comes with the box.
know, you still download it, you know, people like knickknacks and souvenirs and tangible, curios and stuff like that. and that's what magazines are today. That's what the homepage is in many ways. Like
Yeah.
[00:31:22] Brian: Hmm.
[00:31:22] Troy: I'm freaking out. Brian, what about your brush with,
[00:31:25] Brian: Oh yeah. So let's, go on my brush with, I don't know if it's fame.
[00:31:28] Troy:
[00:31:28] Alex: Oh, it is You flew close to the sun.
[00:31:30] Brian: yeah. I, I try to be even handed even with, Elon Musk, right. Cuz I know like he excites a lot of passions I don't know if you've noticed this, but they have this community notes function that, bubbles up things that people have pointed out, about tweets, about either correcting the record or something that they're trying to get around, the heavy handed quote unquote heavy handed content moderation that had taken place, in previous regimes.
And what I, I've found very fascinating is that they're doing this, not just the Elon Musk tweets sometimes, but also to ads basically. it was for Regal Cinema. I saw this a couple times before, but I was like, well this is probably someone in the decimated ad department that's just getting back at Elon Musk.
cuz I was like, there's no way that. anyone with an advertising business would take money from an advertiser and then be like, they're really stretching the truth here, and, the yeah, they're saying that this is a deal, but like in the fine print it is. I said it was like a truly, bold move.
And Elon Musk himself replied to me, which was a very interesting experience. it, got my tweet viewed a couple million times. and to show the sort of complete uselessness of Twitter as a front end to, uh, a media business. It resulted in 14 new followers. Which,
really tells you something. But I
really got to meet, some interesting, parts of humanity and my replies over the last, several days. think what was interesting to me about this is, what, I'm gonna call him Elon now. I used to always, be against, uh, on a first name basis of these people, but he's tweeting with me, so
[00:33:01] Alex: Hmm. buddies now?
[00:33:02] Brian: Yeah, no, I think we're close. what he had said to me, let me get, let me get what his, actual response. He said The goal is to make this platform maximum truth seeking, or said another way, the least untrue compared to everything else. I thought this was interesting. First of all, the idea of getting that truth, I would think he would stay away from this because it's very, very complicated of what is true to one person and what is true to another person.
and I think that was always the problem with the content
moderation stuff,
[00:33:31] Alex: complicated for him to know what's true and what's not.
[00:33:33] Brian: but applying that to advertising. I mean, it is very bold. I'm actually writing about it for tomorrow. because you do have this lack of trust in, all sorts of different, areas, but obviously with advertising, people don't trust it. And I'm wondering if this is actually a really bold way to restore some amount of trust in advertising.
I mean, this would be a completely different, ad experience there. I don't know if you could possibly get this by advertisers. you've sold a lot of ads in your life.
[00:34:02] Troy: Can you not comment on a Facebook ad post?
[00:34:04] Alex: not even on Reddit, I think.
[00:34:06] Brian: there have been efforts over the years that you can like, but they always give control to the advertiser to turn stuff off.
in some ways I feel like Elon Musk is like a web 2.0 child. a lot of the things he goes back to it was like he was cryogenically frozen at the start of Web 2.0 and like he's just been defrosted
[00:34:25] Troy: Alex would say, advertising's a lie. I would say that you pay for the right to present a certain truth
you're positioning your product, you're presenting its benefits. You do it in a way that yeah, naturally you're trying to sell something.
That's the way the world works. opening that up to let the community comment on it is something they do one way or the other. It's a question as to whether you wanna be the host of that.
[00:34:50] Alex: Yeah.
[00:34:51] Troy: I think it's, if you have a good product and you have,
and people sound off below it and they say, Hey, listen, well, they missed this part.
And the truth is there's constraints here in the product, which is what they did on that regal ad. you know, there's always back and forth on every product. I would say that, this microphone or coffee maker, whatever, is a good product. And other people would say, maybe you should look at this other one.
I think people do that anyway. we're just exposing, or in this case, they're just exposing that for people. I think that you probably still, unless it's egregiously false, accomplish your objective because really what you wanna be doing, particularly with something like, Twitter advertising, which I think leans towards awareness, is getting people to think about you.
And if you get people to think about you, you're more likely to sell them something. I think it's amazing. I love it. I love Elon Musk.
[00:35:38] Brian: Oh my God.
[00:35:39] Alex: Oh boy. you just sound like Bill Maher.
[00:35:43] Troy: I bill Mar loves Elon.
Yeah.
[00:35:45] Alex: my God.
[00:35:46] Brian: Regal had said, no blackout dates, no limit on how many movies you can see per day. Truly unlimited movies. And the readers had added the context. According to Regal FAQs, you have to pay a surcharge for premium format, showtimes and eligible movie
[00:36:01] Troy: Yeah. and I would read that and I would say, duh, there's always gonna be a
little bit of fine print, and then I would still buy it. But the, Elon thing, just quickly, Alex, first of all, he has a, a bit of a weird demonic laugh. His disposition when he sort of breaks into the awkward laughter is a little odd.
I loved that him and, what's his face found themselves to be fast friends.
[00:36:21] Alex: bill
Maher.
Yeah, I mean, they both, subscribe to this. if I don't like something, it's woke. philosophy, which is really interesting. I was actually looking into it after I watched, clips of that, I looked into, this research around, some cat bacteria that can make, there was a hypothesis that some cap bacteria might infect people's brain, cor decept,you know,
last of us and, potentially might have been the start of wars in ancient times where, people would, just become,kind of infected and much
more prone to to
[00:36:52] Brian: No, no, that's not it. That's not
it, Alex.
It's it's cat lady syndrome. Of cat person syndrome and
like it was, it's that you get a bacteria in your body and basically that bacteria needs to get back to its host. So it infects your brain and makes you assemble, a shit ton of cats
that'll eventually eat you and get the
bacteria back to the cats.
[00:37:12] Alex: Okay.
[00:37:13] Troy: Is this a real, is this a Wait? Is this real?
[00:37:15] Brian: Yeah, it's real. It's terrifying.
[00:37:16] Troy: I think it happened to my neighbor.
[00:37:18] Brian: That was actually the last thing that freaked me out
[00:37:20] Alex: So, what I'm thinking is, if people keep talking about a virus that very obviously doesn't exist, to the point of saying this is the biggest societal issue, could they be infected by a virus? I mean, if I was an alien trying to invade the earth and cause some sort of, structural issues, I would grab half of the population and infect them with that weird mind virus and they would all end up having blue checks, which I noticed, your comments,
[00:37:44] Troy: These are
[00:37:44] Alex: everybody
[00:37:45] Troy: pre prepared comments.
[00:37:47] Alex: on your comments, everybody that was, pro Elon had a blue check and everybody that was anti Elon didn't, an interesting,
[00:37:54] Troy: So what Alex, so what you're saying is the blue check is like the cat mind virus
[00:37:59] Brian: it's Toxo,
[00:38:00] Troy: by by aliens.
[00:38:01] Brian: Gandhi.
[00:38:02] Alex: Well, the blue check is actually the only way we can see who the body snatchers are at this stage. That's what I'm saying.
[00:38:08] Troy: Hmm.
[00:38:08] Alex: And I'm stating this as, journalistic fact please. But I will say allegedly just to cover ourselves. it's, it's just interesting. I'm very confused about this, feature for the advertising thing because I actually really love it.
I think it's great they should try stuff like that, but, it's really hard for me to have Elon sell truth. like it's kind of a wild,
[00:38:27] Brian: I think truth is the wrong word though. but I do think it's a
very interesting,
[00:38:30] Alex: for Elon.
[00:38:32] Brian: I do think it's an interesting attempt to get people to pay more attention to, advertising in a way that is quote unquote native to the platform. I mean, Reddit has tried this and lots of people have tried it in general.
It runs up against advertisers just being like, no, we're very risk averse and the last thing we need is a screenshot of our ads being corrected,
[00:38:51] Alex: Well, I, I always thought that advertising was you paid to be given the opportunity to lie without repercussion.
[00:38:57] Brian: Oh my God.
that's
not, that's
not the case.
[00:38:59] Alex: get, fan mail again, Troy?
[00:39:02] Brian: All right. Should we do good product? Let's move on. The good product
[00:39:05] Troy: Good product. My favorite segment.
[00:39:06] Good Product
[00:39:08] Troy: Well, Brian, you had, suggested a good product entry this week, had you
[00:39:12] Brian: I did, I was aggressive this week. but I think it's whether it's a good product or a bad product, so it's like sort of a different version of good product.
And
cuz last night, well last night in succession, it
was one of those product demo, they wanted to do a product demo, sort of Apple product demo kind of, shows.
And so way Star Reco was coming out with this new product called Living Plus, which hilarious. It was a very, very good episode. No spoilers or anything like
that. Whatever. I don't know if there's a spoiler, nobody dies or anything. I'm wondering, Trey, did you see the show?
[00:39:43] Troy: did, yeah.
[00:39:44] Brian: Did you think Living Plus is a good product?
[00:39:46] Troy: I think I'd enjoy it at some point. I mean, I think that the idea, my mother lives in a place like that. I think the idea of moving the cruise line onto land, which is basically who she lives in, she doesn't leave the facility. She has, there's like a little cinema in there. They get like salmon
and chicken and stuff for dinner pasta
sometimes. Yeah. They, they have happy, They, have a gr they have a piano in, in the main room. My mother loves to play piano. She met some other people that like piano. this one's dystopian for a couple of reasons. It's like a Disney resort. Likethere's one called Golden Oak, which is a subdivision, I think in Orlando or something.
And there's one called Story Living, which are both Disney developments. It's like that except from Fox.
[00:40:29] Brian: Yeah.
[00:40:29] Troy: And it's like if Fox had created their subdivision of sort of mega lovers It's also sort of like subscription living. You just subscribe to, the home and you get with it.
You get access to advanced screenings of their, entertainment products. You get the, the weirdest one you get. Yeah. But the, the strangest one is they were going to get together with some pharmaceutical companies so that, that you could, it could, the, the claim would be that it extended your life, but they would partner and feet mainline you, antibiotics and stuff, so you would live longer.
And the other one is, the other one that I thought was really funny about the way they position living Plus is the first benefit was security.
It was sort of like, you, you don't need to bring, maybe you're allowed to bring guns and stuff, but they're doing kind of heavy, heavy monitoring and there's security is a big part of
[00:41:20] Brian: Yeah, I think the other great part about that was, when Kendall was trying to, get the forecast basically doubled, which I've seen this happen up close, where like a top executive isgonna like waterboard the finance person
in order to get those numbers higher.
Can we just go a little higher there? one of Ken's, reasons for that is we'll package up the health data and sell it to third parties,
which
[00:41:45] Troy: Yeah. No, the part I liked about that was like, you're good with this, aren't you?
Like, you're, this is achievable. And he is like, well, I, I don't know. And then it was like, no, no, no, we can get there. Are you sure you, we can get, you're good with this. Right. I love that part.
[00:41:59] Brian: But I do think Living Plus is, a good product in a lot of ways, because retirement is going to change quite a bit, and I don't think that the way it is done right now is the way it will be live around golf courses a lot of times and stuff is the way it's going to happen in the future.
It's gonna be much more narrower or much more niche. It's not just gonna be in like Florida. there are gonna be different types of experiences that are beyond, you have a clubhouse, you have golf, you have pickleball, but I mean, I think there'll be like pickleball centric, retirement communities.
[00:42:29] Troy: I think that sounds amazing. Have you heard what? There's that one in Florida that's, they made a documentary on, I think it's called The,
Villages.
[00:42:35] Brian: Oh yeah. the
villages that's like infamous with, and that famous infamous depends on your political persuasion.
[00:42:40] Troy: You know, if we're
talking about entertainment. I just want to give a little shout out to my favorite show on television.
You ready?
No. it's Barry. Barry
is the finest show on television.
It's Bill Hader writer, stars in it. I think he directed many of them. executive producer, it's a dark kind of comedy thing about, assassin or contract killer that falls in love with acting goes to Los Angeles.
It is so good. The best 10 o'clock,
[00:43:07] Brian: Okay.
[00:43:07] Troy: after succession on H B O.
[00:43:09] Brian: All right. We'll check that out. So final thing and then, then we will wrap it up. didn't prepare you guys for it, but like
Alex, what is like an. AI tool you would recommend people play around with, don't, please don't say chat, g pt.
[00:43:20] Alex: Ooh.that's a good question. I actually think the summary tool in, artifact, and I think artifact is actually a good product, is really. profound in how it shows what the future looks like. So for this audience, I would say, do download that app, artifact, and look at what it's doing to both try to make peace with publishers by, not, affecting, what's happening to their website and their ads, but at the same time potentially upending it.
And the second you move this button from within, it's in the sub menu right now. So you, you need to do go where you change the font size to more upfront. it'll have a profound impact on how people consume media, on this app. And I would say, That's, that's one, that I feel is, pretty interesting.
The other ones are just like every single app, including Notion, or this note called Reflect, that I used to take notes, have, AI commands built into it. So, which means, as I'm taking note, I can ask it to summarize stuff. these are also pretty cool.
[00:44:15] Brian: Yeah. I'm glad that you're a, a notion user. I woulda think you would be a notion user. I have this theory that I can, I I can tell if someone's a notion user or not.
[00:44:23] Troy: Oh, Alex loves he loves structure.
[00:44:25] Brian: There's
like two types of people in the world,
[00:44:27] Troy: he's the most
structured, unstructured person you've ever met,
[00:44:30] Alex: yeah. As you may have noticed, my brain don't work good, so I need like a lot of tools to make it feel
[00:44:34] Brian: but there is a certain type of person who's in the notion. I feel like,
yeah,
[00:44:39] Alex: People who party.
[00:44:40] Brian: one party. All right. Troy, how
[00:44:43] Troy: All right, parties. Well, Alex kind of stole my thunder. No, I don't think it's artifact and don't download artifact. You don't need it.
you know, don't, don't do that. I would say, it's the tool I'm waiting for. I gotta say to the guy at OpenAI, please get me on the plugin list because I want to be able to query Expedia from chat G p t, that I'm looking forward to, I've been playing this week with, a sort of a chat g p t like tool called Hugging Chat.
Not to be confused with Cuddle Chat. No, it's Hugging Chat is, you know, hugging face. It's a, an open source chat,
G P T replacement. and that's kind of cool. but,I
[00:45:22] Brian: So wait, it's an open source. Wait, wait, wait, wait. It's an open source chat. Hupy T. So it's like without the guardrails.
[00:45:27] Troy: I didn't check
the
guardrails yet.
[00:45:29] Brian: Oh, so
[00:45:29] Alex: Yeah.
[00:45:30] Brian: it's
[00:45:30] Troy: I use a
[00:45:32] Alex: if it's open source, you can remove the guardrails like people are doing with these mid journey type image generation. Oh,
[00:45:38] Troy: Well,
people that know me, know my newsletter will know that I like, Mid Journey a lot. this week I did The Bear as a sort of cubist thing you saw that Brian, right?
[00:45:47] Brian: I did. yeah.
[00:45:48] Alex: yeah.
[00:45:48] Troy: yeah. I love Mid Journey. Love it. I'm getting better at it.
[00:45:51] Brian: I'm gonna check out bedtime stories.ai. I was told about that this morning.
[00:45:54] Troy: That sounds like a good one.
[00:45:55] Brian: I'm gonna tell, I'm gonna, I'm gonna have a tell these stories about ad monetization cuz I'm into that. I would love to drift away at night with thoughts dancing through my head of monetizing through
[00:46:06] Troy: think the best AI
[00:46:07] Brian: sponsorships.
[00:46:08] Troy: Yeah,
[00:46:09] Alex: The, the Goldilocks banner, the one was too big, too small, and just Right.
[00:46:13] Troy: yeah, the best AI app is the one that Alex, and I are about to build. Look forward to it.
[00:46:19] Brian: All right, until then,
[00:46:20] Outro
[00:46:20] Brian: Thank you so much for listening.
This podcast is edited expertly by Vanya Arsenov, who works with Alex at Universal Entities and makes it sound great and cuts out a ton of the fillers and ums and mistakes that we have. Thank you, Vanya
cool. Great interface episode.
[00:46:34] Troy: I was talking to open AI
I want to try the plugins.
[00:46:37] Alex: here We want access to the api.
[00:46:39] Troy: Yeah, I got that.
[00:46:40] Alex: Can you get me on that? Jesus
Christ. call him back tell him that person that actually needs it is me
[00:46:46] Troy: I'll work on it for you, Alex, cuz I've done that for, ever since I met you.
[00:46:51] Troy:


PVA S1E35
PVA S1E35
[00:00:00] Alex: And we're on.
[00:00:01] Troy: well, we're gonna do like our 18th AI podcast.
[00:00:04] Alex: I had some people. Listened to the podcast for the first time and said, oh, I didn't know it was so much about ai. I will now listen to it because media's boring and stupid. That's all the tech people,
[00:00:15] Troy: That's my differentiator, Alex. Media and AI used to be media and crypto.
[00:00:20] Brian: Oh
[00:00:21] Alex: Oh, fuck yeah.
we must talk about AI, I guess.
we will talk about ai, of course. It's everything that everyone's talking about.
they're super interesting guys. it's super interesting.
[00:00:30] Troy: I like it. I like you when you get excited about things.
[00:00:33] Brian: Hey.
[00:00:33] Troy: I like you less as a sort of conspiratorial left wing sort of agitator anti advertising.
I like you more as like
ai
[00:00:41] Alex: I'm turning around on advertising. I think if we're gonna have a media company, we should try to make advertising work.
[00:00:47] Troy: You rock my world this week,
[00:00:49] Welcome
[00:01:11] Brian: to People versus Algorithms, a conversation about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Morrisy. I write the Rebooting Newsletter and host the Rebooting Show podcast. Each week I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young, of the People Versus Algorithms Newsletter.
Alex Schleifer, former head of Design at Airbnb, and founder of Universal Entities. The experience of much of modern publishing has been one of jumping from one burning platform to another burning platform. One publishing veteran once told me that it was a game of leaping to a new audience pool before the measurement catches up.
It's hard to believe anyone convinced themselves those fleeting three second views of Facebook videos meant much. And now publishers are rushing into talk's arms and they clearly have strategic amnesia. This never ends well, but you might as well get while the getting is good. I guess much of the media is focused on winning intent and engagement.
I mean, that's why Gawker boss, Nick Denton and Buzzfeeds, Jonah Perretti recently admitted that the perverse incentives of the last era were to generate unique users instead of page views. think what they were getting at was using shorthand for the fleeting impressions, instead, going for loyalty and depth.
this is what I was trying to get at once when I was trying to come up with a concept around primary engagement media, and many times depth is misinterpreted to mean keeping someone captive on a webpage, for instance, I mean, this is what leads to the hair Brainin notion recently that the homepage, is poised for a comeback in any plausible notion of where media business goes next does not involve massive amounts of people waking up one day and deciding to use the internet like 2004.
It just isn't happening area, however, that deserves revisiting. Is what John Steinberg, a Buzzfeed, longtime executive and co-founder described to me as Ambient media. John was launching Cheddar at the time, and I was extremely skeptical, to say the least, but John is perhaps the most compelling salesperson I've ever met.
The pitch that John gave me my question of who is going to tune into Cheddar, who is gonna seek this out on a random O t T channel, was around ambient media. Because John reason, much of media is ambient. It's C N B C on without the sound. It's talk radio. It's Bob Ross painting watercolors and is behind much of what I think is the underrated power of a medium like podcasting and mean.
I've been around long enough to go through three or four cycles of IS podcast dying? It's all peaks and troughs. cutbacks in the funny money era of podcasting, like the millions thrown at celebrities have given the impression that podcasting is again dying. But in the contrary, I don't think it's going anywhere.
because podcasts offer a depth of engagement, even if it is ambient, many would knock ambient media's mere background filler, it's presence in the background builds loyalty. I regularly hear from people who listen to this show or my other podcast, about how. They multitask with it, and I think that's freely valuable.
the numbers on both shows are smaller than newsletters, that's for sure. And they're harder to monetize because there's no way to get people to click. and it's ambient. So people by definition, are not in action taking mode. But there's a wrinkle to this as we discussed in this podcast. You know, AI is coming okay, and AI is really good at delivering just the facts.
Anyone who uses chat sheet p d can see this. but it's not really good at making connections and connecting dots. More importantly, I think that's what humans still are really, really good at, is taking ideas one area and applying it to another. And it's something that we try to do on this podcast all the time.
And I think with the. Onslaught of synthetic media. There's just gonna be so much filler out there. And I think ambient media is poised for a bit of a comeback, because it asks just enough of the audience. And I worry sometimes that too many times brands, and I've seen this over the years, ask too much of their listeners or their audience.
You know, they want the world to revolve around themselves, but that's just not how it works. So this week, Troy, Alex and I discuss ambient media through the lens of what is coming with ai. And of course there are various other digressions and detours. This is a human podcast. After all. Hope you enjoy it.
[00:04:50] Welcome end
[00:04:52] Brian: But let us, let's start, let us start. I feel like I'm
starting a religious, religious ceremony. It's like how my dad like began, like grace. we should actually, we should begin the podcast with Grace.
let's start with, just the week in, in AI from Alex Lloyd's, perspective because, every week many new things happen and us, some of us mere mortals who are out there I don't know, trying to sell ads and whatnot, like, we, we don't have time to, keep up with this stuff.
So, at least the things that stood out to me that happened this week is more prominent people coming out and being like, pump the brakes, which. Again, sort of leads me to be like, are we sure we really want to go down this path? Or, do we have any o other opportunities?
But what stood out to you this week with how these models are developing and the environment? Alex?
[00:05:36] Alex: Me,
[00:05:37] Brian: Yeah, you,
[00:05:38] Alex: when you say these models, what do you mean?
[00:05:39] Brian: it's the week in ai we're starting out with the week in ai. because honestly it all blends together for me. and this is all moving a little bit too fast. I turned 50 like a few weeks ago, a couple months ago, I guess.
And I've reached the age where, technological advances are just coming too quickly for me to process.
[00:05:55] Alex: it's moving too fast for everyone, buddy. talking to people on the inside of these companies, they don't really know what's happening. But the interesting that's happening, this week was this leaked memo from Google and also, some numbers that are coming out from open AI about the cost of running this thing, which is making it feel like maybe these companies are spending an inordinate amount of money trying to run these highly generalized systems like Chat, G P T, and it's costing them a bundle, and training the models that costing them a bundle.
Meanwhile, the technology has left the lab as in and is out in, the wild. And people are building these very kind of robust, smaller, models. using stuff like hugging face, that are fully open source so you can kind of access and, build stuff with it.
things are both costing these companies a ton of money to run. And, they might not be as defensible. There's no moat, right? That was the, the thing. And so that's been really interesting.
[00:06:45] Brian: I thought that was like fascinating, the fact that chat, g p t open AI could lose five hundred 40 million last year. And they might lose a hundred billion dollars in the years, which on, on the one hand it's oh wow, this is crazy.
and a real risk to the, the development of this. But on the other hand, I just think they see this as a giant moat that Silicon Valley loves this because they've got access to massive
amounts of capital
[00:07:10] Troy: The stakes is high, Brian. The stakes is high.
[00:07:13] Brian: Okay. Well these guys are really good at being monopolist. I've
found, not to be all Elizabeth Warren,
[00:07:19] Alex: I they, they, they are right. And they completely changed their tone of being, open source
[00:07:23] Troy: What the, what is going on here? What is going
[00:07:26] Brian: Yeah, it's Elizabeth Warren time. Get on board.
[00:07:28] Troy: I don't want to.
[00:07:28] Alex: here's an interesting, thought though. folks like open AR putting a lot of money into building this, generalist AI that can do a lot of stuff, And that's placing a bet on that. While, a thousand different startups are looking at very specific uses for ai and there is a, hypothesis that. If a company managed to do general artificial intelligence, like truly general artificial intelligence, then that kind of becomes the everything app. it, it has a potential of gobbling up so many pieces of SaaS software and so many of the tools and interfaces that we use that, all these other little, kind of projects coming up will feel like, excursions that just get gobbled up.
Let me give you an example. if you are building a SaaS software that kind of manages data in a certain way and you're building this very specific tool for someone and open AI offers a generalist tool that you can open in your own company and, Brian, you can tell it, you know, I have a small media business and I needed to do this, and here's how I manage my accounting and here's what I need to do for my taxes.
Go out and figure this out, and it comes back with a tool that does that for you.
[00:08:29] Brian: Wait, those are the agents, right?
[00:08:30] Alex: Yeah. I mean, agents or, I mean, there's a lot of stuff that they're trying out, agents, plugins, and all these terms are
[00:08:35] Troy: Put this
in. Put
[00:08:36] Alex: but it's,
[00:08:36] Troy: put this in big phone type.
[00:08:38] Brian: mean? Are you saying them? Cuz I got my readers. That's how
old I am. I got readers this weekend,
[00:08:43] Alex: have you ever watched a Star Trek episode?
[00:08:44] Troy: Yes.
[00:08:45] Brian: a couple. I'm not a sci-fi
[00:08:47] Alex: Well, in, in, in Star Trek? sometimes you'll hear like Jordy or something tell the computer, can you, please build a thing that runs this and does that, and it goes off and does that thing. generalist AI could really upend like all the software market at the same time. On the flip side of that, maybe the chasing of this general AI might be a huge money pit that never leads to anything. and actually what we should be doing is like building specific use cases.
[00:09:10] Troy: can I add some perspective to
this? Please, Please, So,
[00:09:14] Brian: Trey, you haven't said anything. It's like 12 minutes in. It's a record. Go on.
[00:09:16] Troy: hi, my name is Troy. I'm a drug addict. no, the, consumer interface points, which we talked a little about last week, tend to, consolidate into one or two players, It happened in search, it happened in social and even, a generalized tool that approaches ai if or that approaches intelligence, assuming the company does not implode at that point and we all die, becomes on the margin, the place that a consumer will spend time.
Because it's the best and will have more people developing around it. It will develop network effects because on the margin it's trained better. More people will build around that ecosystem because there'll be more plug-ins. more people will use the API because it, it has more to offer.
And so it is a little bit of a winner take all thing and therefore justifies a lot of investment to get out front, in some ways. I think that AI is like HTML in a way. It's gonna just kind of be everywhere. So small models, open source models will proliferate and people will use them in all kinds of bespoke ways, trained as needed against data sets to do all kinds of kind process, like,activities that support all number of business activities.
So I don't think it's an either or. I do think that the notion that open source models are a threat is, I take it with a grain of salt. And the reason is this because first of all, well, OpenAI has an extraordinary lead. They're already out marketing their, APIs. it's a brand that people recognize.
Consumers will feel comfortable there. They're leading the conversation around ai. Google, on the other hand, is just an immense amount of surface area, from Android, from Gmail. From search itself, they can augment,AI queries with, a search index that nobody really can duplicate at this point with the same level of accuracy.
and then they can commercialize it all and they have an enormous ad marketplace on the back of it, which is going to be required on some level trade for sort of attention positions inside of this new vortex. in short, the winner will make as Alex suggested, it can tie together so many activities and take a toll along the way that it is worth trillions and trillions of dollars.
So it's,
worth the, investment.
[00:11:28] Brian: the other thing that came out this week was, a Google engineer. It was a memo got leaked saying basically that Google
has no mo. Right. Okay, wait, that's what you're talking about,
[00:11:38] Troy: that
that's what we're talking
[00:11:39] Alex: I mentioned it alongside some of the, cost numbers from OpenAI. Yeah.
[00:11:42] Troy: Yes, that's what I'm speaking about. That's what I'm challenging. Actually.
[00:11:46] Brian: but I thought you were saying it's gonna be completely centralized with a few
[00:11:50] Troy: No, I'm saying that the leaked memo was hyperbolic and it, did point to, a proliferation of open source models, which could challenge Google's and open AI's position. But I think that the commercialization of that for consumers and the ecosystem around it will still be controlled by Google, Microsoft, and
[00:12:12] Brian: Yeah, is it any different from the open source stuff? I remember like when I first started, doing some reporting on technology,Linux was, was coming up and it was like, oh, this is gonna destroy Microsoft. And Red Hat was trying to commercialize it and
[00:12:24] Troy: It's a good analogy. Yeah.
[00:12:26] Brian: Open source was that, for-profit enterprises figure out a way to use it to their benefit. At the end of the day. It doesn't, I don't know like the technical details of this, but I, I've just seen these like stories be told again, it's like, oh, people can do this and this and this.
The reality is, you I think I can speak for people, they're generally lazy. and the truest thing said about tech is no one wants to run their own server isn't
[00:12:45] Alex: Well, hang on, hang on, just to be clear,when we're talking about like Linux and Ubuntu and stuff like that, this was like maybe the consumer operating system versus these open source operating system. But a lot of the stack of what we use every day is built on open source software.
So open source software did win Android, the backend of macros, all of these things are built. so parts of the stack are very much open source and, and they're very important to the way we're building things, which means that. thankfully in some parts, one company doesn't own, the ability to launch, a web server or something like that, right?
A lot of this stuff got open source, which allowed the web to proliferate and software and stuff like that. Most pieces of software have some component in it that's open source. anything from like,video formats to image formats, have been made open source. at least some of them.
I think there's going to be, it's gonna be very interesting, also interesting that nobody's mentioning Apple. but Google IO is gonna be interesting this week. It should come out by the time this episode, is out. It should happen by the time this episode is out. But I do feel like, here's the issue with the mode.
If Google right now has a huge advantage because of the way its search engine works, and it was the best search engine and it completely upended anything that was available at the time. the one thing they still do have is they still do have a bunch of eyeballs on that thing. if I had Google V Open ai, I think long term Google does win because it's everywhere.
but it's gonna be interesting to see how these, all these players work at each other out of stuff. Apple's gonna come out with something and Apple's gonna say, Hey, we, we are going to completely divert all the search traffic to our own ai,
[00:14:14] Troy: Apple's gonna suck at this. Just like Siri sucks.
[00:14:16] Alex: yes,
[00:14:17] Troy: I know you're a fan boy. I, it's just
like this, it's just like there's some things some
companies don't do
[00:14:22] Brian: If they couldn't figure out iTunes, they're not gonna do
this.
[00:14:25] Alex: I tweeted this week how exceptionally bad sir was at a product. I was in the car with my son and I asked it to play a song from a video game. And it started to play this like non, mix of a, song with a lot of very rude words in it at full volume, which was great. Oh yeah, he's fine.
[00:14:41] Brian: It might not like your vaguely central European accent.
[00:14:44] Troy: yeah, the other, the other thing is, it's this kind of, you are where you are, there's a lot of great people at Microsoft. but their software is kind of icky. It always has been. Someone initiated a teams call with me this morning and
I
was, I was put no, but I mean actually they
[00:14:59] Brian: teams.
[00:15:00] Alex: as Steve Jobs said. They have no taste.
[00:15:02] Troy: he was in Zurich.
That's why. Yeah. and it's like that with Apple. What's the last great software Apple made? I just can't remember. Keynote is the last great software they made. And preview. Preview I like a lot.
[00:15:13] Alex: I think Apple still knows how to make stuff. they need to do something. I mean, everybody thought that Apple couldn't build their own processors, and Yes, they, they destroyed everyone with the m m chips.
[00:15:22] Troy: hey Brian, if we're
[00:15:23] Brian: Okay, once we get into M chips, I'm gonna, I'm gonna pull us out of the M
[00:15:26] Troy: yeah, for sure. This, like, are we having Robert Scobel on next? what, what is going on here?
this is a media podcast.
[00:15:32] Alex: you can't, de discount Apple because they've been able to build processors that are like incredible. They, they'll figure this shit out. but back to media.
[00:15:39] Troy: but
but hold on. It'll be it. No, no, no. But here's the thing. Brian, if we wrestle AI corner from Alex,
[00:15:47] Brian: So I was trying to
[00:15:48] Troy: you, asked about the stories of the week. One of the story of the week was that shaggy.
Because it'll be interesting to watch the chips fall, particularly with public companies that are, impacted in the quarter by AI and watch their market
[00:16:01] Brian: Oh, okay. But real or proceed, anyone who who's gonna miss is gonna blame ai.
[00:16:07] Troy: okay. Couple things here. So let's just double click on this as they say. First of all, I have to give the bone-headed move of the week, award to the CEO of IBM who came out and said, AI is gonna mean we don't hire people in the future.
I mean, why do you even need to come out and say that and 7,000 jobs will not be hired because of ai? And by the way, we're, ibm, we're the AI services company that made Watson that did nothing. So just
like,
to me, it was ridiculous.
[00:16:36] Alex: Doesn't that sound to you a little bit like, ooh, we gotta say something about ai.
[00:16:40] Troy: Yeah, yeah. And we're not letting people off. We're just not hiring them. So that, that's, that was ridiculous. Secondly, the Chegg thing
was was interesting
[00:16:49] Brian: Yeah,
[00:16:49] Troy: It has tutoring services, textbook rental, they'll help you with tutorials, stuff like that.
Right.
So
[00:16:58] Alex: it it can help you cheat,
[00:16:59] Brian: they're not popular with, universities. Right. Not that universities should
[00:17:03] Troy: Okay. But, but they helps, the value proposition is they help you excel at university as a student. Now we know. That students are early adopters, of technology one would think they're all using chat g p t to write ass essays and all that kind of stuff. So they start using chat g p t more, often.
And it's free unless you buy a $20, open-ended subscription thing, So it's free and it starts to impact Che's results. The market sees this guides their results lower, and a billion dollars, pretty much half of their market cap is taken off kind of overnight.
it feels like it's the first big kind of public example of a company that's been dramatically and immediately impacted by AI and By an early adopter segment of the market. I think it's interesting because I think it's kind of a warning to anybody whose business, like I work with a lot of media businesses and everybody, particularly ones that are sort of funnel related, Brian, like that, really dependent on the the search engine results page.
And they're all like, kind of paralyzed. They're like, what do we do? What's gonna happen? How do we insulate our business? Is our traffic in a fall? Will people start to use chat instead of pages? What's the value of a page? There's a lot of questions
Right, what can they do? that's what I'm saying. I mean saying that you feel a little helpless because per Alex's earlier point, if the chat bot does what.
It's meant to do over time. It eats a huge amount of the value chain. Now, let's just say that you are, what, an insurance company that sells pet insurance. Let's say, you need business, you need leads, you need to go to either affiliates or you need to buy search traffic, or you need to do SEO or or advertise on Google or whatever to get more business,
That's the modern way. are they gonna go directly to chat, G p T or Google in the future, upload all of their policy information to the AI and cut out all the other people that pull levers to get traffic, to sell those products. And so anybody in that middle layer that sits on top of Google and between someone who wants to by a customer, effectively. there's a huge amount of anxiety right now, I don't really know what you can do, other than say we are gonna be an insurance company ourselves. We're gonna create our own policies. we're gonna try to get on the plugin list with chat, G p t, something.
You gotta try something.
[00:19:18] Brian: Yeah, I, I'm reminded of early on in, reporting when Google was becoming all dominant and every company I would meet with would be doing something that Google could do, and I would always ask them, won't Google just kill your business? And they'd be like, wow, Google's not the competition, it's the environment.
this is the environment and you have little control over it. You just can sort of try to make your way as
best you
[00:19:39] Alex: the difference with that, Brian, is that, that situation required Google to set up a team, build a product definition, get people to design it, integrated. Now you just need the customer to have a need, And to build their own, tool basically off that. And that's, that's very disruptive potentially for a lot of stuff, especially for media.
I think because now, I can create my own media bot and I'm not, logging onto any news sites anymore.
[00:20:06] Troy: Do you think that's a thing though? media bots,
are they useful?
[00:20:09] Alex:
[00:20:09] Troy: you describe for the audience what a media bot is?
[00:20:12] Alex: Well, it's not even a media bot. with chat g p t with web access, what you can do is, basically make, queries and the, the agent will go out onto the web and figure stuff out. And so now what you can do is like, Hey, find me the top 10 headlines, compile it with all the pertinent information, and, exclude anything political or sports related, and it will go out and a minute
later come back out.
you can, you can have something that's tailored to you. And guys, let's remember, what are you comparing it to? I know you guys love this, but
here's.
[00:20:41] Brian: rubbing his hands with glia. I just wanna let the
[00:20:43] Alex: No,
I'm, I'm,
[00:20:44] Brian: he's literally rubbing his
hands as your businesses are
[00:20:46] Alex: a lot of good businesses.
But here's the other option. Oh, I get to a site, I click on an article, it asks me to pay for it, or there's four ads. Sandwiching the article. Or there's a thing in between, it's so important to, users start getting used to this,it's going to be really hard to give them anything else.
And I think, we're just, inches away of having this thing read it out to me as a podcast that I can like have, as I'm making breakfast,
[00:21:11] Brian: Mm-hmm.
[00:21:11] Troy: did you have Moseley?
[00:21:12] Alex: but think how disruptive this is.
[00:21:14] Brian: Yeah. No, it is. But what I wonder is like when, where is the value creation, let's just say in media, where, where is the value being created? I hear a lot about value being destroyed, but is any value gonna be created?
I mean, there's gonna be value
created by a lot of people in technology.
[00:21:29] Alex: for tech. but isn't that the story of media? All the media people get excited about tech then tech takes all their money and then they, cry there for a second and they cry on the tech platforms, feeding places like Twitter while they're so upset about media dying
while,
[00:21:43] Troy: podcast is over.
[00:21:45] Brian: Jesus Christ.
[00:21:46] Troy: has summarized the last 20 years in media.
[00:21:49] Alex: so, so, here's the issue, and I think, I think Troy had mentioned this many times before, there's a lot of people that will just want to create media for free. That's
[00:21:57] Brian: Okay. Okay. So it's a lot of value destruction.
[00:22:00] Alex: it's cataclysmic
[00:22:02] Brian: I guess, I guess going back to the, the Google thing and whether it's true, like we have no mode, I think the good thing about, the media business is that it's been like hammered for a generation.
So anything new coming, it's like, ah, whatever, here's some new existential threat it seems like this is the elimination of any mote whatsoever, except of course for a few people that happen to be, the major tech companies.
[00:22:23] Alex: media, if media is the yellow pagers, this shit is Google, 20
years ago. and so, I wonder, Troy sends me this beautiful article about fucking Zelda that somebody wrote, and they've got animation, they've got H
T M L engineers. it was about Zelda, the video game. and I was like, so much heifer has gone into this thing and.
I don't want to read an article that says Hey, did you know Star Wars was an important movie to some nerds out there? Here's like 8,000 words about it. Instead, I'm going to get used to the fact that I get my information, like straight to the vein. pure,
and
[00:22:55] Brian: just freebase
[00:22:56] Troy: It's exactly what I, it's funny that you said, did you read the article, Alex? I described it as straight, straight to the vein. And I apologize. I, you know what? I kept your identity secret in, thing cuz I didn't think it
[00:23:06] Brian: I was very insulting. You ca you called your gamer friend who has, who consumes media like a 19 year old.
[00:23:13] Alex: Yes. You make me sound like I live in my parents' basement.
[00:23:16] Troy: Well, it's the
Austrian way.
[00:23:18] Brian: He lives on, a ranch with various other members of the commune.
[00:23:22] Alex: That's right.
[00:23:22] Brian: but that leads me into like, I can't think too far ahead with this stuff. I can barely think the next week and ahead. cuz obviously, you know, there've been a lot of this like end of an era with, with media and we're publishing more specifically, but, about where sort of safe areas are and it's easy to be like niches and it's I'm not really even sure anymore.
but one area that I do think is interesting and it does play into this podcast, is the idea of, ambient media coming back. Because what you're talking about is, A lot of publishing is a really inefficient tool for achieving what you say, what you're able to do now with your media bot.
And I think that's fine for a certain type of media, but there's a different type of media that's in the background and I think that's why, podcasting gone through a lot of like rough spots in its development. there was a lot of people down on podcasting recently and I think they were down on a certain type of podcasting, which is cutting a big check to Michelle Obama or, one of the royals.
Who are those royals who are living in California? and Megan. Yeah. and all of that, but The mid tail, 74 had something of podcasting, and I think podcasting will go back to its original roots and be very, handcrafted and like human and digressions. I think that's, I'm making excuses for my digressions on this podcast.
because when I talk with people who listen to this podcast or other podcasts, one of the reasons that they like it is that it's on, in the background. And, you know, and that's why you can have podcasts that are like longer. Whereas I feel like if you are going to be in a world of these media bots and you are creating, I think about this as someone who types words, you better be pretty succinct.
Troy, you gotta, the garage doors closing on those 1700 word essays that you're doing.
[00:24:59] Troy: Hmm. I've tightened it up. Thanks to, your feedback.
[00:25:02] Brian: No, I'm terrible with that.
[00:25:03] Troy: it's actually a really just a couple points I would add to that. I think that the Alex use case teaches me always that, people are gonna run at the sort of medium machine in ways that they find effective and efficient.
think that there's a simple equation that sort of says, amount of content over available attention equals media consumption approach. And that only leads us to more sort of efficiency and more directedness in what we seek out. And like Alex said, maybe the New York Times said something vaguely interesting to say about Zelda, but he just wanted the meat of it and he didn't wanna mess around.
And the little novelties that were their design approach, he's a designer, he likes it, but I don't mean to speak for you Alex, but you don't have time for that shit.
[00:25:49] Brian: it's friction. I
mean,
[00:25:50] Troy: friction.
[00:25:51] Alex: but it's also like I will listen to a gaming podcast that is three hours long where people are really into it. Just like meander and talk about Zelda in interesting ways. I don't want the New York Times to tell me that,
[00:26:02] Troy: I get it.
[00:26:03] Alex: I also have access to that, so I don't need this.
[00:26:05] Troy: One of the things about this ambient stuff that I found is I brought this sort of mindset to the podcast where I felt like we have to have something important to say and come to some conclusions and deliver sort of service value to the customer. and I think that people have to, enjoy kind of intellectually meandering with us, and we have to be able to turn on different lights in their cranium to help them see things in different ways.
But what's more important, or as important as that is this, is that they don't get sick of us, that they like us.
It's actually really important. Really, really important cuz I turned off a podcast. I turned off Scott Galloway a long time ago, but it was, it was somebody else I was listening to and I think I sent you guys a text about it that I found that I just didn't wanna listen to the person anymore.
Just like wouldn't want to have a cocktail with them. That was as important as what they were saying. So God damnit, you guys try to be more likable on the podcast.
[00:26:59] Brian: Is that the feedback?
[00:27:01] Alex: that's why I'm saying that, I'm softening my stance on advertising because I know that a lot of advertising executives listen to this podcast and we love you and we love what you did to the
[00:27:10] Brian: you matter,
[00:27:10] Alex: you matter, You matter.
[00:27:12] Brian: value.
[00:27:13] Alex: After all, people are just numbers.
[00:27:17] Brian: no, this came up, Trey with, our mutual friend. We had a drink. I don't know if we're keeping him anonymous or not.
I guess we
[00:27:23] Troy: think he'd like a shout out actually.
[00:27:24] Brian: okay. Well, it's Brian
Wiener, CEO, e O of Profitero. And he was saying like that he likes listening to the podcast cuz he's doing something else at the same time.
And He's
[00:27:32] Troy: He's working out actually. That's how he
gets So he
[00:27:35] Brian: out
[00:27:35] Troy: fit. Yeah, he said he was working out.
[00:27:37] Brian: he's working out and he's listening to the podcast and he said, I take ideas. And then they're not directly applicable to Profitero's business, but he says it, causes him to think and then he applies it to his own context. I don't know if that is a genre of media, but I think that, that, that podcast in particular are good at that.
And I think that that is still gonna be valuable because that that's not accomplishing a task while, you're preparing your muley in the morning. that yes. Okay. Just give me like, the information I need that's, is interesting to me. I think
[00:28:06] Troy: which is to say,
That we should all just take a moment and describe what we typically eat for breakfast, because it's important that we added human dimension to
this.
[00:28:15] Brian: eat breakfast.
[00:28:16] Alex: Me neither.
So there you
go.
[00:28:20] Troy: you just said that you listen to this, you listen to podcast while you
[00:28:23] Brian: Uh, authenticity is also important too. Alex.
[00:28:26] Alex: for my kid.
[00:28:27] Brian: Oh, okay.
[00:28:28] Troy: I thought, I thought you were trying to be relatable.
[00:28:30] Brian: You're not raising your children to be like flexitarian
[00:28:32] Alex: No,
[00:28:33] Brian: or not Flexitarian. What is that? Intermittent fasting,
I
guess. Children shouldn't, intermittent fast.
[00:28:37] Alex: No, that's, no, no, they shouldn't. That's what I do.
I just had a banana today I thought I'd treat myself and get some energy for the podcast, I got some
potassium. What did you eat, Troy? What's your breakfast?
[00:28:47] Troy: I just had an amazing sushi lunch.
[00:28:50] Alex: Oh,
[00:28:50] Brian: for breakfast. I like sushi for breakfast, though.
[00:28:52] Alex: you have
[00:28:53] Brian: Only in Japan.
[00:28:53] Alex: don't have a
[00:28:54] Troy: No, I dunno. But you guys, why, why are you doing this? Why are you, why do you keep doing that stupid shit?
I walk down the street to my
[00:29:01] Alex: look, we need, a gradient. We need, like Brian is a man of the people. I'm kind of in the middle. And you've gotta be the unattainable kind of person that people both want to be, but
[00:29:10] Troy: but it's not true. And I don't wanna represent that.
[00:29:13] Brian: And we won't reveal your address for when the revolution comes cuz you
[00:29:17] Troy: no, if anybody wants to steal money, they should go to Alex's house because he keeps bags of money and gold
[00:29:24] Brian: Yeah. He doesn't trust
[00:29:25] Troy: And he has a bunch of unsigned
Airbnb share
[00:29:28] Alex: Yes,
you can steal my 2019 F-150.
[00:29:32] Brian: anyway, ambient media, I'm very into it. And I think, just, it's a short-term mote. I don't think it's a long-term moat, I definitely believe that it
[00:29:40] Troy: I
don't,
[00:29:40] Brian: of,
[00:29:41] Troy: you mind if I ask you a couple questions about this? Why are we talking about what is ambient
media? I don't even know what you're talking about to be honest.
[00:29:48] Alex: We are ambient media.
[00:29:49] Brian: this
is ambient media.
[00:29:51] Alex: Brian. Do you want, can you mind if I try to frame it for Troy?
[00:29:53] Brian: Sure.
[00:29:54] Alex: right. In a world where,
[00:29:56] Troy: in a
world.
[00:29:57] Alex: In a world, where, that traditional media is being upended by technology in some way or, or another. there is this very specific format and we've talked about format before, which is this ambient media, which is like slightly longer form, usually audio because audio's a perfect ambient format.
You don't have to pay attention to it. You're doing it, on your bike ride and your commute in your car. It's why radio is, such a great medium and it's news delivered in a way that is kind of meandering with a lot of different tabs being open in, in, the topical browser.
and relationships being built with people that are, in your ears. I think it's like one of the few defensible spaces that's left in
media.
[00:30:35] Brian: it's not task directed. Remember like trying to recraft SEO as intent media. It's like I'm trying to accomplish something and I'm just gonna shove some affiliate things in front of you. And then like engagement media, which is like, we're going to be immersive. I mean, Trey, you're at organic when everyone was making those flash microsites in order to like engage customers and stuff, I think that that's all over.
I mean, obviously the flash microsite is long over, but I think trying to immerse people, unless you're building a video game or something that is just a totally different. End of the media spectrum that you have defensibility and just because it takes so much to be able to, or maybe it'll change to be able to create like an immersive video game environment, whereas typical publishing content, like the reason that I think that Alex reacted so negatively too, that Zelda thing is because it was like Snowfall 4.0 and this idea that you want to be immersed in like publishing content when most people just wanna get some information and go about the rest of their life.
[00:31:32] Alex: Yeah.
[00:31:32] Troy: I agree. I agree.
Nice one.
[00:31:33] Alex: just to
bring it back to AI for a second, I worry that AI will become really good at creating ambient media.
[00:31:40] Brian: Oh, fuck
[00:31:41] Alex: Yeah. so the only thing that you have left is your charming personality.
[00:31:45] Brian: Jesus Christ.
[00:31:46] Alex: said, if people like you,
[00:31:47] Brian: Yeah, but here's the problem, everyone. Becomes a caricature of themselves. I mean, every brand becomes a caricature. I don't know if we've joked about on this podcast where we have puck is a caricature of itself, and I, I don't mean that as a negative actually. I kind of do, but not totally, because like I think it's hard to, cuz you want to be distinctive, as a brand and stuff like this, but sometimes the way you become distinctive become really freaking annoying.
with repeated exposure.
[00:32:11] Alex: I mean, hopefully some of our layers shine through. I probably, I speak the anti advertising truth like a little bit more than I do in my everyday life. I don't
[00:32:19] Troy: You become really paranoid about that characterization. I'm finding. I gotta tell
you. I think, I think it's really good. No, I don't think you should be a dick about it, Alex, but I do actually like it when you go into sort of dick mode. if anything, I'm your friend.
I send you an article, I care about you, you send me back one word, summarize. And I, think that
you being that
I, I did, I loved it. But I
think that you being, yes, exactly. I think that you being the voice, of anti advertising on this podcast makes us smarter, makes us question what we're doing.
it, makes us think about the consumer more.
[00:32:55] Alex: I love listening to podcasts, where people talk about the news more than I like reading the news. even if I know the headlines, I like that tech mean, drive Home podcast where he just, kind of basically reads out articles and adds a little bit of,flavor to it.
and I wonder like more and more if that's just not how I'm gonna consume, the news, maybe it's because the world is so crazy and everything is moving so fast, it's kind of like helps with my sanity to have somebody go like, what Elon said was weird, right? Rather than just hearing it, I wish NPR did this more. like, well, that was weird, right? That's not normal. It just makes you feel a little sanner. I think people, there's probably a, a piece of that as well,
[00:33:31] Troy: yeah,that's,
[00:33:32] Alex: bit seen and heard.
[00:33:33] Troy: I see you. I see you.
Mr.
[00:33:35] Alex: see you. Yeah. Shit's weird, right?
[00:33:38] Troy: Shit is weird. The other shit that's weird is I now realize, I think that Benedict Evans is a kind of pompous Brit, and he, you know, he, he's got a big processor and he can summarize stuff.
And his, new, his his new, his newsletter is a worthy read. And he has lots to say there, but on a podcast in ambient media, I think he's an air sucker and he's not likable.
of the hardest things actually is going across different formats for a lot of people. just because you're good at like a newsletter doesn't mean you'll be good at a podcast, even though they're kind of related a
[00:34:11] Brian: little bit. I
think
[00:34:12] Troy: multimodal, I think you're good. You're no, but you got a sexy radio voice. I like it.
[00:34:19] Brian: it's not my real voice. That's the funny thing. Did you see Tom? I watched the end of the episode and I knew Tom was British, but that still freaks me out when they have like super, super British accent. Like Sarah Snook is, is Australian. I'm used to like, I just assume half the quote unquote American actors are actually Australian at this point, cuz it seems like many of them are.
But Tom from succession, he's like a different person.
[00:34:42] Troy: Yeah, it's funny. I love, I love that. I do like this idea though. And we, this did come up the other day and with all due respect to my brethren, my brothers, my Canadian brothers and sisters, the sort of ontology of accent quality, would actually put Australians, I love them. They're great people, fun to hang with, but their accents don't really rate for me.
[00:35:02] Brian: No.
[00:35:02] Troy: are maybe even lower, actually
heart.
[00:35:06] Brian: your Canadian accent. You don't do
[00:35:07] Troy: Consciously. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. But the Brits win on that account. I like even, I like Southern us, like Tennessee. I like Texas. I like,
[00:35:16] Brian: Brits like Southern, US accents a lot. I don't know why. Seems
[00:35:20] Troy: Hmm. What do you got? Is that a Philly thing you got going?
[00:35:22] Brian: Uh, I do. Yeah. Well, that's just, that's just verbal tics. Well, that's another problem with podcast and ambient media is verbal ticks I've gotten notes about it. Someone said, I said tremendous a lot the other day. They just sent me an email.
[00:35:34] Troy: hmm.
[00:35:35] Alex: we have a great editor.
[00:35:36] Troy: Yeah. Thank you. Vanya.
[00:35:37] Brian: Bonnie, if you could cut out the tremendous,
[00:35:39] Troy: how would you characterize Alex's accent? I like it a lot.
[00:35:43] Brian: I told you
[00:35:44] Alex: Yeah. It's very hard to describe my accent. Sometimes I wish I had more of a, of a French accent because it's, it's kind of
like more
[00:35:51] Troy: That'd be
hot.
[00:35:52] Alex:
[00:35:52] Troy: Can you say something in French for the audience?
Something really,
[00:35:55] Brian: this. No, that's so weird.
[00:35:58] Troy: No, but I don't even believe you can speak French.
[00:36:00] Alex: I'm not your little dancing
monkey.
[00:36:02] Brian: It's like,
[00:36:04] Alex: dance.
[00:36:08] Troy: Oh,
no, but this is, this
is officially the, the best episode yet.
[00:36:12] Brian: You know what I'm doing here. On three or four occasions in the podcast, I've dragged us into nonsense land.
[00:36:19] Troy: out of AI Corner. And I'm doing it on purpose because it's about ambient media.
[00:36:23] Brian: okay.
[00:36:24] Troy: This is the, the, no, this is about am this conversation between three knuckleheads talking about, very tangential things the stuff that makes a podcast have kind of, it builds loyalty.
I think. I think people want, they don't mind the little side streets and, tangents because
[00:36:43] Brian: to sort of go back to
the main highway though a little bit, Nick Denton in one of those end of Nira podcast, the one with, Peter Kafka, You know, when they talk about, well, what is working, what is the future of media? and Nick Denton was like TikTok and subs, and I think he
meant that like,
[00:36:58] Troy: didn't seem to want to be on that
[00:36:59] Brian: no, no, he didn't.
I mean, he's moved on. but I think that that's an interesting, like framing and that TikTok is about like an algorithm. You're just totally just there to feed an algorithm and to catch the algorithm. Whereas subs, I think is a stand in for, and I think ambient media can be part of it.
A type of media that's definitely more personal and more human. And if you're gonna be more personal and more human, I think you can become too niche. Because a lot of times people try to optimize and you're told to be very focused and it's, tremendous value because there's too much generalist stuff out there.
But I think that. there is going to be an advantage to having media that meanders in some way but doesn't become meandering, if that makes sense.
[00:37:37] Troy: it does.
[00:37:38] Alex: I think you need to know your limits. There are podcasts that I listen to where it's, a couple of writers or comedians I can hear them talk about fucking, different types of napkins for an hour because they're funny and compelling.
But the problem is, and I think that's the Professor Galloway, problem, right? Scott Galloway problem is that when you think that, part of your pitch is that you are funny or that you're edgy and you're actually not, then it becomes disingenuous. And I hope, the best thing that we can do, we're not, not everybody's gonna like us,
But I think as long as we come across as as genuine, that's the best we can do. And sometimes the advice is be funny, be relatable, be focused, be whatever. It doesn't really matter. Just be yourself and I love listening to a very dry nerd talk about engineering issues for an hour. And I love listening to two comedians in LA talk about nothing for an hour.
It just really
[00:38:26] Brian: Yeah, I think that's what I, I sort of meant, I just didn't articulate it well, because, know, Nate Silver is, leaving, ABC News. He's the, data guy started at 5 38.
I. And, and he said whatever he does next, he doesn't want to be like, pigeonholed in politics because his interest, as data guy go across like sports and gambling and all kinds of other things.
And he, and that's where I think when I think of the TikTok versus sub, that where it leads in a sort of CK world, which is just a stand in for, more personal and tied to a person, people have different interests. It doesn't mean that all of your interests you should bring,
[00:39:04] Alex: you
know, I stopped subscribing to CKS because I was getting too many newsletters and I, it was just like hard. I was feeling anxious that I wasn't reading most of them cuz I have to read Troy and that takes up like half the week. So I would pay, I would pay 10 bucks a month for a CK feature that summarizes all the newsletters and say, this is what Brian's newsletter is, what Troy's newsletter say and where I could tell it to, like, dig into this one and does it over voice.
I would
[00:39:31] Brian: Yeah, so this is a mistake everyone makes when going paid. I think with sub is, they think they have to give people more, whereas it, I think it turns people off
like,
[00:39:40] Troy: It's also why I have that pet peeve that I used to bring to your attention, Brian, which is too much talk in a TCK newsletter about your process or why you're writing this or what you went through this week is absolutely annoying. And I think that the discipline you should have as a sub stacker is to kind of deliver the goods.
By the way, guys, I should do a word count on my, thing. I had a two by two in there this week, Brian. I think
[00:40:04] Brian: a little
[00:40:04] Troy: was,
[00:40:05] Brian: I gotta say
[00:40:05] Troy: well, it's, you know,
[00:40:07] Troy: really?
[00:40:07] Alex: What?
[00:40:08] Troy: it was pretty, it's a
quadrant diagram.
[00:40:11] Alex: Yeah. Yeah. the thing.
[00:40:12] Troy: maybe after the podcast I can take you through it, explain the logic. But anyway, yeah.
I, I would say that word for word. there's enough value in there for its length.
[00:40:21] Brian: I just want to be in the, upper right quadrant. I always want to be in the upper right
[00:40:24] Troy: No, you could be in the bottom left on this one, cuz you could be chat against, knowledge. That's a good quadrant.
[00:40:30] Brian: But isn't the, isn't the trick that you always want to be upper right?
[00:40:33] Troy: No, I think you can have different,
[00:40:34] Alex: Do you
know what's great?
[00:40:35] Troy: can be
[00:40:36] Alex: guys is talking about a chart that nobody can see is the
[00:40:40] Troy: Okay, Okay, Okay, let's move on. right. Have we hit
all the
[00:40:44] Brian: we, yeah, let's go into good product. Do we, do we have a good
[00:40:46] Troy: Oh shit.
[00:40:48] Alex: You better fucking have a good product.
[00:40:49] Good Product
[00:40:51] Troy: Okay. Can we pause the podcast for a second?
[00:40:53] Alex: Well, we
[00:40:54] Brian: like a bagel?
[00:40:55] Troy: Fuck off.
[00:40:56] Alex: are these cashmere socks.
[00:40:58] Brian: Oh, we could talk about my readers.
[00:41:00] Troy: Are those readers.
[00:41:01] Alex: like real good product, like something that people can acquire?
[00:41:04] Brian: Okay. A bad product is bifocal lenses. I think they were giving me headaches. I thought I had brain cancer, but I just had bifocal lenses.
[00:41:11] Alex: I have bifocals. I can't operate without them.
I mean,
[00:41:13] Brian: know the contact lenses.
[00:41:15] Alex: Oh, I didn't even know they did
[00:41:17] Brian: No, and they shouldn't. They should never do them they're like the optometry version of the TV vcr. They're just like shitty versions of both.
[00:41:25] Alex: yeah, yeah. can we try to make like a relatable, good product? should we all like the three of us bring a good product
[00:41:31] Troy: Oh,
[00:41:32] Alex: It never landed entirely into one specific thing. I don't know which ones worked better, but I think
people like it.
[00:41:37] Troy: doesn't land?
[00:41:38] Brian: No, no, I'm just saying we've never landed, we've never landed clarity as to what it is because sometimes it's brazen.
[00:41:44] Alex: like, huh, yeah, they're tasty. You know what I like
[00:41:48] Troy: It was fig Asles.
[00:41:53] Alex: like, Hey,
[00:41:53] Troy: no, but now I'm all, now I'm all nervous about it because every time I think of something I'm like, can't do that one. It's a food product and Brian will attack me.
[00:42:01] Brian: I don't care. Well, cause products are always, they always become like just tech gizmos.
[00:42:06] Alex: I think a product needs to be something that has a brand that has a kind of value proposition for this audience.
You
[00:42:13] Troy: yeah.
[00:42:13] Alex: I think if it's
know,
grass.
[00:42:16] Troy: a lemon.
[00:42:17] Alex: Yeah. Oxygen.
[00:42:19] Troy: Well, yeah,
[00:42:21] Brian: I like oxygen.
[00:42:22] Troy: a hard boiled, a soft boiled egg. What about a Patagonia Puffer jacket or a, or a SOB 900 or
[00:42:30] Alex: yeah, I mean that's, that just like places you in a very specific category of human being and that's where you want to be. That's fine.
[00:42:36] Troy: What about like an old fashioned pencil?
[00:42:38] Alex: What's your favorite streaming app? Like where do you watch most of your content?
[00:42:42] Troy: That's a good question.
there's two, two
answers to this. I would say by interface, for sure. Netflix, by content, it's gotta be hbo, although they're about to put a bunch of junk in there. the worst in terms of font usage and. Interaction model is prime, don't like it. although they're trying to up their game, even their sort of station ideas, matured slightly and they tend to be sort of reckless in the shows they make, they make a lot of really mediocre shows and Hulu I find they let some ambitious UX designer rack it.
They try to make it a little bit too, sort of, Hey, it'd be cool if we could innovate on the interface and it doesn't work for me. So
[00:43:23] Alex: I know a
[00:43:23] Brian: It's,
that worked on that. perfectly fine. it just matters that the content is good. it has to be like, okay, but nobody cares. Nobody cares if a font or whatever, it's just like
[00:43:33] Alex: yeah, I mean, I think it
should be probably
generalized.
[00:43:36] Brian: I, don't care.
[00:43:36] Alex: I would just love if fast forwarding a show would behave the same across apps.
[00:43:41] Troy: Yeah, you said that a couple
podcasts ago. it's, real B in your bonnet. The other thing, Alex x-Ray on, prime is cool. X-ray is Amazon's, who's
[00:43:49] Alex: yeah.
There's space for innovation. Uh, I was having a, a conversation on Twitter, with folks about this idea of taste and if, taste was important for designers because it's subjective. I think it is subjective, but I, I think you can also see companies that have very little tastes like I do think Amazon and Microsoft are companies that like any taste or artistry
and it's very noticeable.
[00:44:12] Brian: against taste being important?
[00:44:14] Alex: I think there's a little bit of a contentious relationship with. product software designers exist in a world that is very, directed by hard facts and numbers, This is how you build something, this is what success looks like, et cetera. So being the person in the room sometimes that has to say, Hey, listen to my intuition is difficult, I always feel like, just push that forward, lead with it.
my big question that I would always ask someone is like, or a red flag would be somebody saying, how do you know it's good? well, how do you know if those, pants you're wearing are good, like you, you gotta have an opinion. And I think a, a big problem in Silicon Valley is that nobody ever got fired for not having an opinion in Silicon Valley.
And I think what you can see in those products, like the New Max logo or Amazon Prime Bing, is that these pieces of software are made with no taste whatsoever. how are
they gonna understand the media landscape or what's good or not?
[00:45:04] Troy: in defense of no taste, I remember the good product of the week,
[00:45:08] Brian: Oh.
[00:45:09] Troy: and it is, I think in some ways, defined by its lack of taste. And so feeling as a commonwealth citizen or ex commonwealth, citizen, I needed to catch up on the coronation. I headed over to the Daily Mail homepage the Daily Mail is remarkable.
And the thing is, is that I didn't even need to go beyond the homepage to get everything I wanted. Alex, you'd be a fan. They have these sort of salacious. Story length headlines. You don't have to read beyond them. Every video almost is a video loop. Every photo is a video loop. They annotate photographs with circles and little arrows in a very tasteless way that's really effective.
They have these super long captions on every photo that tells you exactly what you need to know without going into the story, and then inside of that sort of crazy mastro advertising fights for attention, from the cheap seats left and right of the content. I love that. Skins never went away at the Daily Mail.
Skins are alive
and well at the Daily Mail,
[00:46:10] Brian: Well, they know who they are. That's what I
[00:46:12] Troy: they just know who they are. They know who they are, but they also give you the goods. They just give it all to you. They give you the media you want, they give you the picture of the Killer's mother. You want that shit
And
[00:46:25] Brian: a double rack of Tabula. I mean, that's
[00:46:27] Troy: And then they circle, the two Charles's, two sons in the crowd and they circle them and say, look how far apart they are.
what did, what's his face whisper when he kissed his father's cheek at the coronation. Like they give you the stuff and they throw it at you in a big, nasty package. And literally it's just all there. It's a good product.
[00:46:48] Brian: Yeah. And there's 95 ad trackers that are fired at you and there's 14 different like auto play videos going on at once. It's total, it's, it's beyond chaos. It's in the bath salts like territory. But like I think if you deliver the goods, I don't think the interface matters as much.
I don't know if this goes against last week's.
[00:47:05] Alex: No, I think, this interface is the way it is because it works, because it's kind of a straight to the vein, tabloid version on the internet. That's what tabloid looks like on the internet and hasn't changed much. and sure, I, I just looked at it and feel bad, but I guess it works.
And I got, I guess it gives all the, exed execs like, gets really excited about how much many ads they're selling
[00:47:26] Brian: yeah.
yeah.
[00:47:26] Alex: how much time they're wasting of people's lives.
[00:47:28] Brian: It's like a pop
[00:47:29] Alex: it's great.
[00:47:29] Brian: it's great. It might make you feel sick, but
[00:47:31] Alex: yes, I will probably get mental diarrhea now after having consumed that, good choice. Good choice. Troy,
[00:47:38] Brian: full circle.
[00:47:40] Brian: yeah. People are pining for the, return of the homepage, you
know.
[00:47:43] Alex: do you think?
[00:47:44] Brian: I think it's ridiculous.
I it's not coming back. I don't know the future, I definitely don't know the future. I'm fairly certain people are not gonna be firing up the web browser and like typing in the URL to news sites.
[00:47:56] Alex: no, no. I think the interface is going to have to normalize around, I'm reading an article. It's the same interface. I'm watching a movie, it's the same interface. I don't need to learn new things. and if you make me learn something new, I'm just gonna ask DEI to bypass it and learn it for me.
there's no reason why in a year's time I should be like the H B O app, remembering where the fucking show was, rather than just, it knowing what I want to play. they'll build modes around that. Netflix doesn't allow Apple TV to kind of access its content.
So you can do that, but are gonna get sick and tired of that stuff. I would like maybe like to make an episode on like this concept of people get used to things, and then they become so normalized that any business that doesn't follow that trend gets pushed aside. And I think sometimes what Troy thinks, I. Consume media like a 19 year old is because I'm an early adopter I'm consuming media the way everybody will in like a year's time
two. I'm not even that early.
[00:48:51] Troy: think you're terrific. I really do. I only commented on it because I took it seriously, Alex, so let's stop doing that. Maybe
[00:48:57] Brian: You wrote it, dude?
[00:48:58] Alex: I wasn't offended or anything. I liked it. I just said, you should have named me because I'm like, link my Twitter account. I can't, I'm losing Twitter follower
[00:49:06] Brian: Really?
[00:49:06] Alex: ever
[00:49:07] Brian: Twitter's dying.
[00:49:08] Troy: it's a media podcast and I think it's only fitting that we end on some kind of media thought or question or something that you're thinking about on that front. And I would've to say that several weeks of very, very dire news coming out of.
The industry that I love and that I spent a lot of time in, which is digital media. clearly Buzzfeed News was the bookend of something. And in the last couple of days I remember interviewing Shane Smith in front of the entire Hearst Corporation. at his, peak talking about how Vice was gonna disrupt the world and it would be worth more than Disney and all this stuff.
and to see it drop into bankruptcy and taken by the lenders for spare change against, against all of these other media companies that while they may not be thriving traditional media companies like the Hearst Magazine business that I used to run, or, Conde Nat or, even trusted media brands, owners of Breeders Digest.
Bonnie has done an amazing job with that business, the traditional media companies are still standing the boldest upstart, whether it's sort of choked on its own, hubris or not, are, in bankruptcy. it's an interesting, contrast and, and good to ask you, Brian, why, why, what
[00:50:24] Brian: that the upstarts did not,
that's an
entirely different podcast.
That's a cliffhanger, dude.
[00:50:29] Alex:
cliffhanger.
[00:50:31] Outro
[00:50:31] Alex: Stay tuned for
next week's episodes
[00:50:34] Brian: Yeah,
I mean,
revenge of traditional media is great because I brought this up on an earlier podcast, today, and Kafka was like,
[00:50:42] Troy: you.
[00:50:43] Alex: Yeah,
[00:50:43] Brian: Peter Kafka was like, ah, they're not doing great either.
[00:50:46] Alex: we'll start, next episodes with a previously on.
[00:50:48] Troy: Good
[00:50:49] Brian: Let's wrap it up there.
[00:50:49] Alex: All right.
[00:50:50] Troy: you.
[00:50:51] Alex:


PVA S1E36
PVA S1E36
[00:00:00] Alex: Okay, we're on.
[00:00:01] Brian: don't touch any
[00:00:02] Alex: Stop touching
[00:00:03] Brian: All right. Should we get into the AI talk? is gonna be an AI podcast, isn't it?
[00:00:06] Troy: I didn't think we were doing AI this week.
[00:00:08] Brian: No, it's everything is ai. you know that there's like approximately 2000 AI tools, newsletters. Have you seen all these thread guys about AI on Twitter?
[00:00:17] Troy: Yeah, I like those.
[00:00:18] Brian: Do you?
[00:00:19] Troy: Mm-hmm.
[00:00:19] Brian: They're everywhere.
[00:00:21] Troy: when they do the thread and they show all the tools. There's some cool stuff there.
[00:00:24] Brian: So you like them?
[00:00:25] Troy: I don't have a strong feeling about them, but there's some useful information, if that's what you're asking.
[00:00:31] Brian: I guess. I
[00:00:31] Troy: I feel like this podcast is off to a bit of a rocky start,
[00:00:34] Brian: Okay.Whatever.
[00:00:36] Troy: didn't think we were talking about AI today. II thought I was mentally prepared for this.
What are we talking about
[00:00:41] Alex: Well, you wrote this big post about AI I felt that that's what we, were going to dive in some of these topics and, give folks more things to worry about.
[00:00:49] Troy: Hmm. Someone's bumping the moderator out of the way.
[00:00:53] Brian: I'm fine with
[00:00:54] Alex: Brian, you, you lead the way. You got it. You got it. Brian.
[00:00:57] Brian: What did you say again? Let me say what you said
[00:00:59] Alex: No, no. You say what you say.
[00:01:00] Welcome
[00:01:23] Brian: Welcome to People versus Algorithms, a conversation about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Marcy. I write the Rebooting Newsletter and host the Rebooting Show podcast. Each week I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young, writer of the People Versus Algorithms Newsletter, and Alex Schleifer, former head of Design at Airbnb and founder of Universal Entities.
The webpage has long been the atomic unit of the internet for publishers. The webpage is what they made. Even as user pattern shifted to make the homepage less important, the side doors of search and social distribution funneled ultimately to the page. It was on the page that publishers delivered their content, established their brands, and yes, made most of their money.
The page is long out of date. Web 2.0 saw an influx of the use of Ajax and other tech to gussy up webpages to make them less static. An unfortunate phase was kicked off by the New York Times' snowfall, which Alex hates by the way, and it saw publishers try to make their pages more immersive and ended up making them more clunky and unintuitive.
The distributed media craze saw publishers try to skip the page altogether and go find audiences directly on platforms or phish where the Phish are. As publishers like to say, at the time, the page was always trying to solve for so many challenges that it became so loaded down with ad tech pixels and unnecessary friction for time both Google and Facebook forced publishers to create stripped down versions of their pages for users delivered from those platforms.
For all shortcomings, the page has been good to publishers, a reliable workhorse that not only created immediate value, but served as digital publishing's own windowing strategy. I mean, after all with evergreen content. Think about service content that answers questions. People type into search engines.
could ring long-term value out of pages. Now news pages tend to have a spike in value immediately when the news is new and then fall off a cliff. But a page that has evergreen content combined with search distribution enabled publishers to build new business lines entirely with affiliate commerce.
As Google eliminated all credible competition, search became a mostly reliable distribution channel. The bargain was always for publishers to play by Google's rules, then make money from ads that very often ran through Google's ad stack and let them wet their beak. It was a roundabout way of paying tribute to the king.
I mean, nobody likes taxes, if someone controls the distribution, you pay up. That's breaking Google's demo of its new AI fueled search engine. Harold's a new phase of search that will throw the page's central role in publishing strategies into question. For all its innovation. The search experience isn't all that radically different.
From the 10 blue links of the early two thousands, we're still scrolling through a bunch of links, clicking, hitting the back button, and then repeating the process. Chat. G P T and Microsoft's moves to integrate AI into Bing forcing Google to dance, and publishers are left in lurch with the ramifications to their beloved webpages.
Some of the issue is simply real estate. Search has not been a winner. Takes all game. There are clear winners, yes, but being on page two could still notch some pretty good traffic. And publishers could always find pockets where they could compete. Most publishers see up to half their traffic coming from search for all the talk of return of the homepage.
Search has long driven far more visitors Google's demos. What's clear is less traffic will go to publishers. And the visitors that do arrive at publisher sites will expect different, more dynamic experiences than the current static pages cluttered with overlapping display ads. Autoplay videos, pleased to sign up for newsletters or to register, subscribe or even to allow desktop notifications.
I was just meeting with a publishing executive who remarked that he didn't know anyone who would ever want a desktop notification, at least Intentionally publishing always has a racket, so this week. We discuss the future of the page among other topics at a time of great change in the media experience.
[00:05:03] Welcome End
[00:05:04] Brian: The idea that I had was around sort of the end of the page view. I, I must admit I did not watch the Google presentation because I was attending the Oda O X six conference in Chicago, which was an amazing event, I must say. But,
[00:05:19] Troy: I'm actually flying to, to Europe tomorrow night to talk about ai.
[00:05:23] Brian: oh, there you go. We can preview your, your discussion. it's fine. It's, it's the topic dujour and what are we gonna do, have Ben Smith on, I mean, whatever. I think you wrote about it and it was very helpful to frame it cuz I saw a couple of screen grabs from it and I was like, I've seen enough.
Yeah, this is a real estate game and there's less real estate that's going to publishers and they're gonna get boned. Google has been the backbone of the internet and it's been mostly a benevolent dictator.
[00:05:49] Troy: just to jump in on where I think Brian's going, there's a lot of discussion and maybe we need to continue it around how changes to the search engine results page. Real estate's gonna affect so so many people, but I think the more productive conversation is speculating on where it goes and how we need to prepare for that.
[00:06:11] Brian: Yes, I agree with that,
[00:06:12] Alex: and maybe a framing here. Is that where Google goes, the internet goes. I think one of my predictions was that, Google was going to be the loser this year and Microsoft was going to be the winner. And we saw a little bit of that.
But, after Google io, and I know you've, missed it, Brian, but Google io basically showed everyone, and, and the market responded to it positively that Google's got so much surface area that they can just slap AI into everything and, it'll become the
defacto
standard
[00:06:39] Troy: Also They productize well, although I will
say, and,
[00:06:41] Alex: not as good as cha j p t still though.
[00:06:43] Troy: no, it's not even close. Bard is
[00:06:45] Brian: But it doesn't
[00:06:46] Troy: And, and I, and I actually feel like I'm, it doesn't have to be, but it, hallucinates wildly. It's
[00:06:51] Brian: Okay, let's get to that later. But like I, gonna end up being this like weenie thing, like it's not a totally accurate, which is
fine. It's gonna get more accurate.
[00:07:00] Alex: eh, I think here's
[00:07:01] Troy: and I think it's a,
[00:07:02] Alex: I think it is a material difference. there's certain things where you don't need to get, perfect results. but I think AI needs to get past a certain threshold for it to become truly useful and adopted. A little bit like, youmaps needed to get
if maps kept, if every fifth time maps sent you completely in the wrong direction, you wouldn't use Google Maps. And I think that's what I'm noticing with Bard. Maybe it's the queries that I put, but it's Full on. you
[00:07:25] Troy: It's full on wrong, Alex.
It's he. He, here's the thing. So if you're just looking for basic sort of Wikipedia general information, it's pretty useful if you want up to date information cuz it's connected to the search index. It's really useful. there's a bunch of other data sets that are connected to it, which make it more useful than OpenAI.
But just to give you a simple example, if you go in and you start looking for specific references from authors on things they've said, or things they've written, it will make egregious errors around who said and who wrote what. I, for example, was just looking at, there was an interesting thing about the middle role that needs to get played in organizations as AI evolves,
So someone who can connect. Data scientists or the engineering organization with the creative organization, this kind of middle role. And there's a whole book written about it or largely about it. I was looking for the author of that book, and Bard flat out gave me Andrew Nigg, who's the founder of DeepMind as the author of, that concept.
And it's not him at all. OpenAI was way, way, way more accurate.
So it's a, there's a big difference. And what I don't understand is why, why and how long, how, how long it will take to, to
[00:08:44] Alex: I think a lot of, I, it's, unclear if anyone knows why, because it seems to me every time somebody gets asked how this stuff works, people say, oh, I don't know. But to me it actually, and will bring it back to the topic, just to caveat everything, is that while Google had an impressive presentation, it felt a little vapor wary.
There was a lot of, it's coming soon or it's coming here. and there were a lot of kind of project names bandied about. I couldn't tell you that there was like a pretty cohesive vision of it. The main thing that they have is, if they add AI to Gmail, more people will use it. But yeah, Bard is, I can see why they were worried to release it.
And this could be for them outside of, the example you gave in, Troy, my example was much simpler. I said, give me events happening in this region between this date and that date. it was June 10th and 15th and it found something. that when I double checked is a winter event.
It's a winter celebration, nothing to do with summer. and that to me is like pretty basic Google shit that it should be able to do. So let's caveat everything we're gonna talk about is that Google is not out of the,
you
[00:09:47] Brian: Okay, so wait, are you saying like the spaceship was over the White House, but it's actually somewhere in like
[00:09:51] Alex: Uh, let me be clear. I think G p t four is still like I have experiences with Chad G p t four that are transcendental. I, I cannot understand how the computer is responding in a way that is, so uncanny and so, specific about stuff that are very loose topics.
while, I can make barred, kind of make mistakes pretty much constantly. So this shit still happening. God knows what Google has in their back pocket. But all I'm saying is these models are not perfect, especially Googles, as we're seeing all of the models are incredibly expensive to run.
they might not be able to turn them on, to the extent that they might want to at the scale that they might want to, and some of the stuff might take a while, right? It could be, be that we have a last mile problem with ai,
[00:10:33] Troy: Hey Alex. My suspicion is this, the concept that I was looking for was very specific. It was called the missing middle. I clarify what I said a minute ago, and it was about people that can navigate the connections between humans and machines. It strikes me as a very important concept as companies figure out the role that little robots play next to human beings,
And that's everything from prompt writing to data enablement, all that stuff. Very important. Now, I suspect that where, Bard is breaking is the connection between the AI model. Which is now called Palm two and the search index. And so when it's making these seemingly seamless connections between current information represented in the search index and the AI model, it's associating the wrong information stuff that's coming up in the model.
so my suspicion is they'll work it out in the next little bit. I think Brian's right that the convenience of having it integrated into docs, which is how I'm using it, you'd literally ask a question inside a Google Docs, will Trump, model performance.
[00:11:37] Brian: Yeah, but I'm also interested in, in what is the brand I think what you're getting at was like why Google was reticent to release it. And it's a brand issue, Google is, a trusted brand. If you look at the most trusted brands around Google's at the top, it's two or three or something like that.
And OpenAI coming out with this thing, it's like, okay, whatever. It's a test. You gotta register and all this But Google has like,one of the most trusted brands out there. And so what I wonder is, I assume that that is going to improve, like I just assume it is going to, and it's gonna get more accurate.
But does it end up having a brand problem in that you sort of think about not trusting AI answers, it becomes like, almost like a joke oh this must be AI cause it's inaccurate. The issue to me with a lot of this AI stuff is, are regular human beings outside of Silicon Valley gonna trust this stuff?
[00:12:27] Alex: A hundred percent. I.
[00:12:28] Troy: You know what I.
[00:12:28] Alex: if it's chat g p t levels, if it can give good enough answers, most of the time around most of these simple queries, people will a hundred percent trust it. Because today they trust a lot of pretty terrible information on the internet, So, I, I would say that it's likely that they will, but it can't get pretty basic stuff wrong like it does today. if it works like ChatGPT 4 Yes. Or even 3.5 if it works like Bard today, no, that, that will become a meme. It'll become a meme, like it'll be
[00:12:56] Brian: but isn't that always the way,
like Snapchat was sexting meme, Twitter was, what did I have for lunch? Meme? it all starts with I just think it's a different area because it's gonna be used for more important stuff than these other. Silly social media tools.
[00:13:10] Troy: Brian, I, I found, I experienced the trust breakdown firsthand this
[00:13:14] Brian: Mm-hmm.
[00:13:14] Troy: And the way I would describe it is I have a way of finding information via the search bar, where I type in a broad query and I start to refine it. And the trust signals I'm getting are from who published something.
They're from media brands or human brands largely. And it's sort of like you have this sense as to whether information is legitimate, if you know how to use Google on the internet and you're critical about information sources. what I found is I had to move between, Bard and OpenAI to go back to the internet because I didn't know if I could trust the models.
Because I had an old way of validating information and it didn't apply to the new way. And I think that's why media brands are important. And I think that's why the clever integration of citations into chat models is gonna be really important because you can't just have a blob of text from the AI and just trust it.
You can't, and I don't think you will be able to for a while. And so people will, for basic things, that are inconsequential. How do I make popcorn in the microwave or whatever. But, I think for more important and more current information, you're gonna be looking for indicators
or complex jobs to do, I think it's absolute magic when you tell it to figure out the quickest flight to, a destination, If it works, but when it doesn't work, it's absolute trash. So some of these things are going to be pretty important to get right.
you know, how I realized how serious the race is though this week I just want to add this I read this quote from Alex Carp, who's the CEO of Palantir, and the quote was, you have a technology that will allow you to outproduce change the margin of your company, understand your business, blah, blah, blah.
It finishes with this is so obviously dominant that adversaries, quiver and squ away instead of attacking us or our allies, followed by a video of a palantier powered, war simulation. Where the operator, this is serious. This is a very, very important video in my mind. The operator is asking for up to date satellite information about troop movements and then sending drones in to get more information and do worse.
And so it literally was like a war simulation inside of a chat interface that showed you how AI was gonna manifest as a tool for war. And you realize pretty immediately that that's if not coming very quickly already here. And the idea that you don't have AI to support the military is like not having munitions.
It's like incomprehensible. It's very important. I'm not saying it ought to be important, it just is. And so if you watch this, I think you would find it really staggering. We can throw it in the show notes,
but AI has already become absolutely material to planning military campaigns.
[00:16:18] Brian: Okay. So on the one hand it can't get basic stuff. Correct. And on the other hand, it's like changing warfare.
[00:16:23] Alex: Yeah.
[00:16:24] Brian: I hope it doesn't bomb us by accident.
[00:16:26] Alex: well, that's the, let's look at it this way. if we're talking about media, some of the things that we're gonna have to start looking at as, media creators is actually how quickly Google can change and how quickly the interaction models change and the behaviors change around that.
And what I noticed kind of underlying this Google IO presentation is that while ai, I have not lost any faith in ai, the more I use G P T four, the more we get access to APIs, the more I see stuff like that Palantir stuff, it's earth shattering and culture changing,
But if we're looking at the next three years, It is actually really important to kind of dissect this Google IO presentation and look at how much a lot of this stuff does feel like,not rushed in, but I can understand why they were worried about integrating this stuff into their product.
Because if Google loses that authority on delivering good answers, then, they lose a lot of value there. And I think as, as media companies how do you work around that and how do you look at Google's evolution over the next year and adapt to it? Because, there's not, like, what do you do on the internet?
It still is a world where, what do you do in Google's internet? They control Chrome, they control, the search engine. They control Gmail. I mean, even if you have a newsletter, you're running through Google, believe it or not, right? You, you still have the gatekeeper,
[00:17:40] Brian: isn't this a near term opportunity then for publishers? Because one of the biggest challenges for publishers is lack of trust on the internet. People just don't trust stuff on the internet and they never really have, talking about this,in our text chain, and I put like the trust, with different, news brands and it's all the digital brands are all the, all clustered at the bottom and all the traditional brands and some of them that people like to mock, like Forbes.
Forbes is way more trustworthy. And by the way, Forbes is valued at 800 billion, about 10 buzzfeeds right now.
[00:18:08] Alex: 800 million.
[00:18:09] Troy: Million.
[00:18:10] Alex: million we're, we're talking, we're talking media money here, not tech money.
[00:18:14] Brian: No, I know. Did I say billion?
[00:18:15] Alex: Yes.
[00:18:16] Brian: what? It's just been like billion million. wouldn't there be like a new, an opportunity for publishers to use this to regain some trust?
Be like, oh, look at this stuff. It's not trustworthy at all. maybe you
[00:18:28] Alex: game. It's a dangerous game. What do you think Troy?
[00:18:30] Troy: I think that media brands, if nothing else, have become. A light signature for trust. That's why they're used for product recommendation. That's why the ones that haven't been able to make money in content and traditional media monetization some of them, like Forbes have thrived in the affiliate game.
I think that those brands, while not huge businesses, and when I say those brands, many of them were either newspaper or magazine brands, have stood the test of time as things indelibly printed in the minds of consumers that they feel like they can rely on. The real legacy of Magazine Media and I think newspaper media is that they are valid sources of information and trusted sources of information.
[00:19:14] Brian: Hmm.
[00:19:15] Troy: So, yeah, I think that can that show up in new ways? It has already shown up in lots of new ways. Forbes tells you to, buy a certain insurance product or a VPN or a payroll service, I think that they'll show up similar ways as validators of information in chatbots, because I think that Google and OpenAI are seen not as information authorities, but as technology companies.
[00:19:41] Brian: Yeah. you wrote a little bit about skews, trumping pages. Do you wanna explain that a little bit? I got a little lost in that section. I gotta be honest with you.
[00:19:50] Troy: Well, information collapses in the AI funnel, right? So if I write something. About, organizational change, Inis and I get a result that's delivered back to me by, open ai. it's mushed together in the chatbot's, presentation of information to me. And Aku is a entry in a database, of a product and the associated metadata.
And that product could be a bicycle, it could be a mattress, it could be a lawyer in your neighborhood, it could be a flight could be a hotel room. And what we saw in the Google demonstration, and it's kind of obvious, I suppose, there was a good, how to buy the right bike use case that they showed on stage at io.
And what you see is it's the merge of chat and Google Shopping. And inside of Google Shopping what you see are all of the SKUs. The SKUs are a picture of a bike, the description of that bike and where you can get it. So all the picture and all the me metadata, who, who has it. And that's a huge important type of information to a consumer on the internet.
Anybody looking for a thing or planning travel is ultimately looking for the sku.
[00:21:01] Brian: Mm-hmm.
[00:21:02] Troy: in a chat response, s skews don't get demolished. They're indivisible. So if you had, say, a database of all the senior care providers in America, or if you had a database of all the divorce attorneys in America, would get surfaced in the search results in a way that was extremely valuable to the holder of that database.
anybody that has discreet pieces of data or information that survive the chat experience can monetize those in all kinds of ways. That's why I say the skew is more important than the page.
[00:21:36] Brian: Okay, but if I have that database of, what did you say? Senior care providers, why would I want to give access to that to these models? Like why would I not want to close
[00:21:46] Troy: Because you would, you would include a link with it that would take you to your page and you would monetize that lead because just like if you were selling a bike, that presumably would go back to your product catalog or your product listing and you would make money off its sale, you're further down the funnel,
you own that data and you therefore control
[00:22:08] Brian: Okay. Just so long as they have to come through to the site. I remember like covering Kayak in the early days and a lot of who were like, you're not getting access to all of this information. no, Remember like when we had before Uber, used like all its VC money to try to put taxis out of business in the name of the sharing economy or whatever nonsense that was going on then is you would have Upstreaming and to me the internet is a bunch of Upstreaming and Upstreaming or anyone who hasn't been upstreamed in New York.
Cuz when you're trying to get a cab and someone just walks up like a half block or a block and takes the cab coming down sixth Avenue
[00:22:38] Troy: Hmm. I didn't know that was an official term for that. That's annoying. Mm-hmm.
[00:22:42] Brian: come on. You were, that's old school, right?
[00:22:44] Troy: We don't have taxis
[00:22:45] Alex: when was the last time Troy took a
[00:22:47] Brian: Your driver has been upstream
before. I'm sure Troy
[00:22:50] Troy: Stop it.
[00:22:51] Brian: actually as a driver,
[00:22:53] Alex: some other executive went for, went, walked up the
[00:22:57] Troy: it. You guys are getting
boring.
You know, I mean, it's just like, it's just so boring. hey, but you know what? If you don't provide value in that middle air like Kayak, then all the airline companies will be the place. That receive that link and they'll, go direct effectively. But I suspect there'll still be layers in between the airline and the chatbot that provide comparison services.
Just like today, if you go use OpenAI, there's a plugin from Expedia, there's a plugin from Kayak, they provide comparative travel services in there. I hope you're with me now, if I feel sort of inadequate, like you're still not with me on this, just like the week before, you didn't understand my two by two.
[00:23:40] Brian: Maybe that's my own limitations. I don't know.
[00:23:42] Alex: But Troy, if you have that data, what is the value of that data once it gets ingested? you're talking about data that is, potentially more readily available, Don't you need some type of unique, component to that skew that makes you, the,
[00:23:55] Troy: Gathering, organizing, standardizing, sorting, comparing data from all of the senior care facilities across the country is part of the value.
and if you can do that. Yeah. And if you can steer the presentation of that into the next step, that organizes it into a form so the consumer can get contacted by all the senior care facilities in Chapel Hill, North Carolina or someplace, you're creating a lot of value.
And all of those leads that go to the end user are worth thousands of dollars. So there's still a huge amount of value there. And my point more broadly is what data can you own and how does that differentiate you in a world where AI endlessly. compacts information and takes all the value out it from its creator.
it's a kind of compression machine that's just stealing all of the content.
So how do you survive,
[00:24:50] Brian: isn't this just an acceleration of scraping? I mean, so much of the wealth of the internet has been just scraping other people's information because why create stuff yourself when you can just take other people's?
[00:25:01] Troy: I suppose? I think that's an acceptable analogy. Nice one.
[00:25:06] Brian: So, why allow it? if you have this valuable data set we have a long history of a lot of technology companies scraping data that they didn't create and they did nothing to create, but they've just gone in and, in some ways, oh, because you didn't put, robots that txt, they were like, oh, oh, we can come in and take your stuff.
and guess who's gonna get rich? Not you, us. why go down that road again? I mean, I sort of understand. I don't know if it's possible, but why even play that game? Why feed these models?
[00:25:32] Troy: Well, a lot of people are asking the same questions, so people that hold the keys to vast repositories of information, like a Reddit or a Quora are saying, Hey, there's gonna be a tool gate here. So a lot of people are trying to avoid that mistake. Others are in this, weird position where they at least want some promise of traffic via a citation or a link or something, and are gonna open themselves up to some kind of aggregation.
Now, how that plays out, who knows?
[00:26:02] Alex: I think, as an organization that owns kind of des skews these pieces of data, you have to do a lot of soul searching and really try to understand how valuable that data is in this new world. a lot of companies I've talked to often, uh, overrepresent the value of their data or how unique it is.
And I think in a world of ai there's a fundamental change in the way, just a value of organization because I can send an AI model and that that wouldn't be even Google doing it I as a competitor. Could send an AI model to look through, a bunch of disorganized information and organize it,
so all the kind of labor that was put in, in organizing and tagging stuff can be bypassed. So all of a sudden, if all you're offering is something that's better cataloged than somebody else, it's not as valuable. Now, if you're Reddit or Cora, the great thing is that you have a constantly updating, set of data that has live information being added.
But if you're a list of doctors and your main values that you've organized it well, that's all stuff that can be be so I would say, really try to see how defensible your data is because it's, even if Google doesn't steal it, somebody else will figure it out.
[00:27:06] Brian: But to be clear, it's also your brand, and these models just to circle back are gonna have a trust issue. And so they're gonna glom off of established brands, like your example list of doctors.com. If they have a set of data that is a list of doctors, it's not gonna be as valuable as Mayo clinic.com.
It's not.
[00:27:25] Troy: Right. So to per the brand point, if the list of senior care facilities isn't just a generic list, but it's also a ranking, of them by any dimension, quality of care, expense, et cetera, then that's your data and that has tremendous value even inside of a new interface. See, I think what's gonna happen too is everybody is gonna deploy open source models to organize data on their sites just as if it was underlying the internet
like a chip or any foundational technology. And so you're gonna see chat everywhere. You're gonna see chat, augment user experiences, at the page level, everywhere. The generalized kind of like broader, chat that is OpenAI or Bard. There will only be a couple of those generalists that wins.
There's a law there that, power consolidates to a few players and I think that that's no different than it was with search.
[00:28:24] Brian: you've done a lot of media, right? and the atomic unit for most digital publishing is the webpage. And so I'm like very prosaic and I'm very interested in the future of the webpage. because it is the foundational element of just about all digital publishing. And I think at this point it's, again, it's an acceleration.
We've already seen it with everything is going towards video and the webpage itself, cuz I'm thinking about like the messenger. Started today. And it's, such an old school model. It's so page centric
[00:28:53] Alex: Can you
go over what that is?
[00:28:54] Troy: page and video player centric. Brian, interestingly, it's kind of using the aol, put a, video player on every page kind of model of old,
[00:29:03] Brian: yeah.
[00:29:04] Alex: is the messenger?
[00:29:04] Troy: It's a new straight down the middle, media property
[00:29:08] Brian: Nonpartisan. It's a nonpartisan news because we need a news, a new news,property out there and
[00:29:14] Alex: Both sides.com.
[00:29:15] Brian: yeah, pretty much, with a heavy dose of New York
[00:29:19] Troy: Let's give him a chance. Let's, let's give him a,
[00:29:21] Alex: Wow. I mean, first of all, this website is a peace. Oh, shit.
[00:29:25] Brian: Okay. Alex is not giving them a chance.
[00:29:27] Alex: My, I'm not gonna visit this Jesus Christ. All right.
[00:29:31] Troy: Okay.
[00:29:32] Brian: They're gonna put that on the movie poster.
[00:29:34] Alex: Okay.
[00:29:34] Troy: My friends designed that. Okay.
[00:29:37] Alex: Well, I said, really?
[00:29:38] Troy: I think it's V 0.9.
[00:29:40] Alex: you're
still friends.
[00:29:41] Brian: clients get the work that they ask for. it all comes back to the brief. if you were building a publishing company now, would you start with the webpage? I don't want seriousness, like I just, it it doesn't seem like you would,
[00:29:51] Troy: what would you start with? Email.
[00:29:53] Brian: I honestly, I don't know. I think email to me is just
[00:29:56] Troy: Come on, you got a media brand called The Rebooting, which is about sustainable publishing. What are
[00:30:01] Brian: it's the, it's, the least worst,
[00:30:03] Alex: Well, the question is what is the most, defensible at, the moment, right? And maybe it takes you. A hundred times longer to build an audience on newsletter or a podcast. But it's also maybe, the least disruptable by AI right now, because honestly, I wouldn't know what else to do.
And I would recommend, hey, build a discord, community, send a newsletter, build a podcast, do all of these things, which are kind of out of the purview of what's happening on the web. Because the web is going to be a blood bath, what Google didn't talk about at Google IO was, Hey, this web that you're searching is going to be 99% generated by AI feeding AI itself.
how, how How is that gonna work? The, the web web might collapse. if I just hired 20 people, that's not where I'd put my money, man,
[00:30:48] Brian: like would you start a website, Troy?
[00:30:50] Troy: a website. Listen, this all goes back to this is why it's Alex's point, ispo. a page is a page, A page is an email. A page is a two by two artifact that is just an repository for information. What matters isn't the page. What matters is where the distribution comes from. And so the page is a convenient and open way of presenting information that's indexed by Google, and that's where the distribution comes from.
Or some other, refer of traffic, but, everybody is now much smaller than search. So I would, yes, I would, but I wouldn't make it the center. I think what has to be the center of your media brand is the quality of the ideas and the representation of those, and the voice and the brand and everything that goes along with it.
I think then quickly you say, well, how are we gonna maximize distribution around that? If Google the webpages is one part of it, the first thing I would do is I would say, how am I optimizing my content for the next generation of search? And that's what I was trying to get at with my newsletter this week.
how How do we think differently about. Content that matters. That's the point of the skew conversation. And it may also change. The nature of content that ultimately gets listed at the top of the new chat page. these are very, by the way, to the audience, these are very dense conversations that benefit from visualization.
But I would also say, yeah, I would start a podcast, but the thing I would be most obsessed with is, do I have anything unique to contribute to the fucking world? is what I'm doing
of
interest to
the people?
[00:32:26] Alex: I mean, every media person thinks that, let's say they all wake up in the morning thinking
[00:32:30] Troy: Okay, but there's
[00:32:31] Alex: and now they're like, okay. And then they make a,
[00:32:34] Troy: Hey, breaking news guys, you don't deserve to have a media company just cuz you all want one.
[00:32:39] Brian: well everyone says that, but then they write the like 15th article that's the exact same out there and they
[00:32:45] Troy: Well then don't overcapitalize your business and don't do all that. Right? Like I, that's not my plan.
[00:32:51] Brian: I can't get any smaller Troy. I could shrink myself.
[00:32:58] Alex: I'm only five nine.
guess do something good, right? But I think what What a lot of media creators are facing now is that like, yeah, we wanna do good things, but there's no way to make money and sustain it. And there's this tidal wave. That's about to hit us and we feel like,we might have put all our chips on black in the casino, on the ship, and the ship's about to tip over, so who cares?
and to me it's like I wouldn't invest in a website now. I can't tell people where this stuff's going. I said, I think it's gonna be a bloodbath. And if you're a little media company in the middle of that bloodbath, finished.
[00:33:30] Brian: But Troy, think about the seo. I mean, let's just talk about the here and now. this thing, there's less real estate, right? There's gonna be less traffic that is gonna get pushed to publisher websites and you know that s e o is the lifeblood. It's very profitable. It is a very profitable operations.
It's everyone has an SEO chop shop in the back that is optimizing and that's why the search results in part are such a mess. And that's the opening for this stuff is because everyone's playing the same game with trying to get to the top. what Forbes is doing with Forbes advisor is not unique.
Everyone is doing it. They might be doing it better, but everyone is doing it. And that's because it works and that's because it's extremely profitable and it subsidizes a lot of stuff that frankly isn't that profitable. I mean, I look at the messenger when they came out, they have nothing but programmatic ads on their Trump interview, and like USB backpack ads too.
[00:34:20] Troy: You think they would've at least got MyPillow to advertise
[00:34:24] Brian: exactly. Have you seen teu, by the way? That's the new, put that in the show notes. They've got some really funky ads that are everywhere now. It's like some sort of Alibaba kind of thing.
[00:34:33] Troy: I really feel like. we're desperately as an industry, as individuals on this podcast, certainly in my own mind, we want an easy answer to it. And if you go through the list of things, you realize that. The distribution potential is limited. The monetization potential is limited.
Or they are platforms that are much better suited to individuals. So you look and you say, we're gonna create a, podcast space media company. You're like, oh shit. Well that's gonna take you a long time. And it's hard to monetize. We're gonna do a text-based media company. Well, that's not gonna work very well.
And then you would say, well, we're gonna base our media company as, say John Patel did as a Twitter distributed short video news thingy. And you're like, oh shit. But is Twitter gonna let my ads on there? And then you're like, nah, we're gonna do TikTok, we're just gonna do news on TikTok.
You're like, shit, I don't have an ad product. And people don't want to hear from institutional media brands on TikTok. I'm going through the list is my point. And then you go and you're Ben Smith and you say, after I get done every podcast in the country, I'm gonna come back to the office and we'll write newsletters.
And then we're gonna do events. We like events and we like loose letterers. And I say, great, I like your newsletter too. It's terrific. Except you better, not take too much money cuz it's gonna be a small company.
[00:35:52] Brian: Yeah.
[00:35:52] Troy: and I think that's kind of where we're at. And then I love this the messenger thing cuz they're like, so old school, they're like, we're opening up a slice joint, and we're gonna sell the best, pepperoni slices because no one makes 'em right.
They're all too fancy now.
[00:36:07] Brian: they're gonna do
skins. They're definitely,
[00:36:09] Troy: you know,
so what are they doing? They're doing fast pages, programmatic advertising, lots of content. They're gonna wrestle for what's already proven in the market. And at the same time they're hoping that so many people atrophy that they can kind of find a place in the old distribution paradigm.
And it might just work. Who
knows?
[00:36:29] Brian: it might. I mean like there's a new pizza place opening near me and there's 90 pizza places near me and I was like, really? I'm like, that is really optimistic to open up a new pizza place when there's 90, within five blocks,
[00:36:39] Troy: You know what I see a
[00:36:40] Brian: people will always open pizza places. I guess that's my
[00:36:43] Troy: and they'll also open up newfangled smoke shops that sells
inns and we, they sell weed. There's so many of
[00:36:49] Brian: Oh, that was another, by the way, Zins are like a moral panic in the, Chicago suburbs. My sister, who I told about this podcast and Jean, I hope you're listening cause I told you about it. I'm doing
[00:36:59] Troy: hygiene? for listening.
Don't let your kids Stoo ins.
[00:37:03] Brian: no, some kid like that, maybe it was one of my nephews.
Anyway, they, they got into some dad's Zins and they were like hopped up on Zins. I had no idea.
[00:37:12] Troy: My kid tried to spit his use Zen out the other day and it landed on my arm.
[00:37:17] Brian: See, this is all new to me. I don't have kids, so I don't know about these different like moral panics that are going on.
[00:37:22] Troy: Do your kids do? Zins, Alex?
[00:37:24] Alex: no, not yet. Not yet. I don't even know what a zin looks like, to be honest.
[00:37:28] Brian: is it like skull not, not as
[00:37:30] Alex: it's like little tea bags. What is it?
[00:37:32] Brian: This is like skull used to come in those little things. But do you have to
spit?
[00:37:36] Troy: No, no spitting required.
[00:37:37] Brian: I guess that's the big innovation because I think that was the big problem with,
smokeless
[00:37:42] Troy: I was actually
gonna ask you about this. I collect these now, Alex. I have a garbage pill full of empty ones.
[00:37:47] Alex: Great.
[00:37:48] Troy: Zen containers. I was gonna make art with them.
[00:37:50] Brian: You should go. You should just chew tobacco.
[00:37:52] Alex: are we all shilling for
[00:37:53] Troy: I feel, I really feel like.
[00:37:56] Brian: Should we bring it back to
[00:37:57] Troy: Bring it back.
No, I really want to bring it back to the webpage because I want to talk, I wanna talk about, search is gonna change. There'll still be links there, there'll be fewer of them. How you get in is gonna change. So search engine optimization becomes something new.
Let's call it chatbot optimization. Don't know what it looks like yet. Exactly. We're seeing glimmers of it from IO and from citations in Bing, et cetera. The second thing is, having a data strategy, some type of data asset or unique content asset that doesn't get destroyed in the sort of chat extraction process, I think will be important.
What that means, how that looks. Not sure. Beyond that, I think that webpages, and this is where I wanted to get Alex's take because Alex is a, kind of application thinker. I think that what you're seeing now is a new level of interactivity on webpages and what's gonna happen is every sales funnel, just like we're seeing on the search page, webpages are gonna be AI assisted, so they're gonna be more interactive.
We're gonna see a change to the fabric of webpages. I've been calling them smart pages, for lack of a better term.
[00:39:07] Brian: It's a very throwback term.
[00:39:09] Troy: Yeah. Smart
[00:39:10] Brian: It sounds like something MSN would come out with SN smart pages. They might have actually.
[00:39:14] Troy: I
[00:39:14] Brian: But what does that like mean? really, the webpage is not that different and I feel like it's been in decline for a long time. at the same time, It's really the same, fine.
We moved from a right rail. A lot of places just have basically a single column and they're integrating the ads slightly different, but we're still just hitting a back button all the time and I can't see that being the case in five years. So what is a
smart page? I don't, I don't know what the answer is, but I can't imagine if you're making a webpage mostly because of distribution. The distribution requires you to make a webpage. The distribution and the monetization require that, it just does. The reason that I haven't built a website is cuz I don't need it.
it has not helped. don't see like an upside to having a website right now with the pain in the ass of making one.
[00:39:59] Troy: okay, so I'm not gonna be able to satisfy you as to why you do or do not make a webpage because you used to do it for reasons that were related to distribution. You created webpages cuz you hoped someone would find them and it was a useful way to present information to a search query or a social referral, now I'm saying that the fabric of webpages may change. So let's take two examples and you react to these. One of them is any purchase funnel. So you're looking for a bike, a car, an insurance policy, whatever. now behind that webpage is a smart robot. And so you're frustrated cuz you can't compare.
Hotel rooms in Alex's, earlier example, or you can't compare different models of the same car. You ask a question and it, answers your question and it modifies presentation of information. So suddenly the information on the page is dynamic. presented to what you're asking and who they know you are.
And it's searching through a bunch of information behind the webpage to customize it in a way that makes it simpler and easier for you in a media use case, which is, I think maybe what you're interested in more. You see a whole bunch of different things. Some, superficial, some not.
[00:41:19] Brian: What does that mean? Some superficial, some not.
[00:41:22] Troy: you would say, Summarize this page, compare this point of view to another point of view. Give me a quiz on this content. help me find more sources that dimensionalize the idea. So all of the things that you might do on your own expand knowledge in and around that page of information can happen on that page now, so a webpage becomes more dimensionalized.
And I think that you're gonna see a lot more of that. We could have done that before in a back and forth between a database, your personal profile and the presentation layer of a webpage. But now it's getting easier and so much more powerful because every webpage can have a brain now,
[00:42:04] Brian: right.
[00:42:04] Troy: and
that brain can make the page more useful to you.
So I think that's where it's going. The page itself doesn't disappear.
[00:42:11] Brian: Well, I guess nothing ever disappears. I guess my point is like the existing webpage paradigm, in some ways it's already been on its last legs
and.
[00:42:21] Alex: isn't it ironic though that we're getting more news webpages, websites being launched in the last year that I've seen in the last decade, I mean, the messenger is the latest 1, 7, 4 puck, all these things. we've seen
new web webpages
launch and so maybe people are seeing
[00:42:38] Troy: maybe
[00:42:38] Alex: not.
I'm interested in that. I agree with Brian. I don't think the webpage paradigms like works long term.
[00:42:44] Brian: I just can't imagine in a world where you get your answers instantaneously that people are gonna be hitting back buttons. I just don't, I don't see it.
[00:42:52] Cut
[00:42:52] Troy: Can you pause please? I can't hear you now. Can you say something guys?
[00:42:55] Brian: Yes, Troy, will you come to my dinner in Cannes
[00:42:58] Alex: hear you
[00:42:59] Brian: or he doesn't
[00:42:59] Alex: because he refuses to use wired headphones.
[00:43:02] Brian: Always wire. Always hard wire.
[00:43:04] Alex: wire.
[00:43:05] Troy: Okay. I'm back.
[00:43:06] Brian: Okay, perfect.
[00:43:08] Troy: Okay, so I was going on about these, this notion of webpages, and I was really looking forward to Alex's thoughts on it because he's a designer of these things.
[00:43:17] Brian: Oxy long on webpages.
[00:43:19] Troy: I'm trying to understand what the mode is for people and you know, people have some jobs to do or tasks that they want to do specifically on search, right? Where they're looking for something specific. And we can already see how. search can bypass the site.
[00:43:32] Alex: When you ask for like an actor's age or, somebody's net worth or pretty basic information that Google will surface,you know, it'll link the website there, but nobody will go to that site. I feel that there's these two competing things happening, which is where do people put their stuff and then how do people access it?
but I get a sense that what's going to become more and more important outside of the unique skew or the unique data that you can feed into an engine is identity. And it's like the website maybe becomes a place where you tell the people about who you are in your message.
Maybe you collect all the things that you've written ac across the disparate, Places where you post them, and identity is going to become really important and developing kind of your own personal brand and the brand of your media company is going to become really important.
And I don't know where the identity lives, if there's a, like somebody in the workforce or looking for work, your identity lives on LinkedIn, With family, your identity used to live on Facebook or Instagram or something like that. And as you build a media company, you're dispersing on, CK and maybe a Discord channel, and maybe you have stuff on Reddit, but where does your, like core identity live?
when you bump into somebody at a, conference, and you tell them where to go. Do you pick one of these things or do you send them to your own website? Trying to, Control that and I think the website still might have a, place for that. is Google going to send a lot of traffic to websites?
I don't think so. I don't think citations will make a difference. I think people are not going to click on any of those citations. They're not gonna give a shit. Vast majority of content people want from, Google searches, which is the vast majority of the way people spend time on the internet is just getting
[00:45:07] Troy: It's a super super interesting question because I get the sense that not only does Google feel a kind of moral responsibility to preserve the viability of the ecosystem around it, but obviously it goes without saying that those clicks are their money.
[00:45:23] Brian: well, they're monetizing on the other side of the click. I mean, that's been the sort of bargain, It's like Google's gonna send you traffic and then guess what? The ads on there are served by Google. Like Google controls the ecosystem, and that's the reality. And it's been. Fine. It's worked, And now Google is forced to quote unquote dance. And so they need to again, quote unquote, disrupt themselves. And that breaks the sort of system that has existed for going on, what,
[00:45:49] Troy: Well,
[00:45:50] Brian: years?
[00:45:51] Troy: yeah, and the only another mental kind of model to consider is the app store. So if pages become more functional, if the kind of model shifts from being just about content pages that are absorbed by the center to things that, accomplish tasks or, help you do something with the support of ai, then Google becomes the center of a world of applications.
[00:46:16] Brian: Yeah. But wouldn't it be better if instead of this weird system where you're sort of being indirectly. Taxed by Google, No one likes the word taxed, but it's the reality, Like Google Levy's taxed on, pretty much every business on the internet, just the same way that Apple, I think, more straightforwardly, has a tax on everyone who operates in the app store.
publishers should, basically, it should be reversed, that they should get paid in order to contribute, to these models because their work is being scraped.
[00:46:46] Troy: that's a really good point, Brian, because if you thought that this thing could get turned upside down and you thought that more and more of the mon, listen, if you have an omniscient chatbot at the center of the world that controls so much economic flow, then that. Is the source of a huge amount of value, and you should pay people that support that model.
So it kind of turns it around and says suppliers to the center will get paid, is really what you're saying.
[00:47:12] Brian: UBI
[00:47:12] Troy: that I
think it's just so hard to administer when, when there's such a power imbalance.
[00:47:17] Alex: Mm-hmm.
[00:47:17] Brian: know.
[00:47:18] Troy: one thing that bears,mentioning is that just like skews are harder to break apart and chat, video is too, video is like aku in that it's indivisible.
you don't absorb it into the text chat like you do an article. I think in this whole kind of conundrum that we've been talking about, video just becomes more and more important.
[00:47:40] Brian: Yeah, that's what I'm saying. You would not start with a webpage a webpage. Is text. You might have proprietary players on there. Like I don't know if anyone's basing their video strategy around a bright Cove player, but no offense, bright Cove in case you wanna sponsor, get in touch.
[00:47:53] Alex: Brightcove is
[00:47:55] Brian: over, right?
[00:47:57] Troy: That
[00:47:57] Brian: Alex.
[00:47:58] Troy: old. Yeah.
[00:47:59] Alex: maybe that's a good threat, which is, the core kind of, Media format that you start with probably shouldn't be text,
[00:48:06] Brian: Oh shit, Alex. That's what I
[00:48:07] Alex: I know, and I keep telling you guys, the ability for text to get, like, jumped up and,
[00:48:13] Troy: Wait, did he tell us that?
[00:48:14] Brian: I don't, I don't, I either missed the part, the part of me being doomed. I sort of missed that. We should have
[00:48:20] Troy: Oh, the part, the part that you're, you write for a living That, that,
that
[00:48:23] Brian: we, can we double click
[00:48:25] Alex: look, write for a living, but then output it as you reading it out to the world and making it more about personality. I think that it's probably more defensible. I'm not saying nobody should write, but it's probably more defensible to start with a, a piece of media, like audio or video because people will want to consume it like that,
Rather than starting with text as your kind of, high value piece of content and video is a great version of that. Audio is a great version of that. Live community. Live chat. live text. Like I wanted us to cover Google io in some sort of live conversation, Maybe we can use something like, a ck or whatever they call it to cover this stuff live and try to create things that are like just more defensible.
Especially if you're a small media company and you've gotta pick bets. You can't do everything. I think creating a website and putting all your shit on it is dangerous because you neither can just turn off Google and say, don't send your bots this way because that's suicide and you also know that nobody's gonna visit it.
Nobody's gonna visit the website.
[00:49:23] Brian: I'm gonna use the sports. Thing. you've never seen the manning cast, I assume, e s p, the football broadcast. it's like terrible. And so they decided to make like a secondary feed where, the Manning brothers who were former football players and they, they've personalities I think, relatively speaking, but they bring on like other players and other people and they have a conversation about the game while the game is going on.
just like normal people would have. And some of it's about the game, but it's not like the normal. I think that would be cool to do with, with live events. Like,like io.
[00:49:52] Alex: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think just try, try to mess with the format and make the format in, in itself valuable, means that it, can't be absorbed by Google and, exported in a way that feels like I don't know if I kind of subscribe to Troy's. concept of the skew being so valuable.
very few companies have valuable skews that are maintained and up to date enough. I think it's gonna be very hard for most companies. Most companies sell, some sort of punditry, some sort of commentary on what's happening during the day. it used to be enough that you had like distribution and money to do it more than others.
But, AI is gonna flatten all that out and anybody with an opinion, will be sucked into that, data set. So I think SKUs are defensible for some, but I think for most, that's not gonna be the way to do
[00:50:37] Troy: Meanwhile,
I'm looking at a universe that's bigger than media, Alex, but I do understand your comment but I, I think meanwhile, There's, again, there's no shortage of content monetized in all kinds of ways. One, one of the things that I've, noticed is for me, writing the newsletter was sort of therapeutic and something that I felt like I, wanted to do personally, just as part of, my own journey.
But I would say that it's monetized, it's monetized. Even though I don't have a paywall. I don't charge subscription, but I get, a lot of economic opportunities because of the stuff I write. there are all kinds of ways that media gets monetized that isn't banners
[00:51:15] Alex: right.
[00:51:15] Brian: Yeah, to me it's like this is a great accelerant, for a lot of things. And one is indirect monetization. media is a great front end to different businesses. Media is a standalone business, eh, never been really that great. But it's great for getting attention.
It's great for building authority in different areas. and you can make money in different ways, just directly exposing, the audience to ads or to getting them to pay It's really not that great of a business. There are exceptions, but it's not.
[00:51:40] Troy: Yeah, and you can sort of see what's happened here and that the iab, for example, is not spending any time creating frameworks for new types of page-based advertise. they're spending time on is like the new fronts for podcasts, for video, for gaming advertisers, in many respects, the thing that they were founded on.
is kind of, in the rear mirror now, like that whole world that we grew up in, which was ad servers and banners and all of that stuff is really, sort of marginal.
[00:52:10] Brian: The universal ad package, seminal moment, the standards, that's what helped. big part of the growth was standardizing to whatever the five different formats,
[00:52:19] Troy: Yeah.
[00:52:19] Brian: r i p, let's get into good product.
[00:52:21] Good Product
[00:52:25] Brian: We could do Hot Cheeto
[00:52:26] Troy: I got a good product for you. I got a good product. Maybe we can do, set this one up as a quiz. What do you guys
think?
[00:52:33] Brian: Okay. Quiz
[00:52:34] Troy: I'm, I'm, holding it in my hand. I don't believe you can see it. It's, believed to have originated in China during the Tang Dynasty, in the ninth century, which many things were,
[00:52:45] Brian: Zio.
[00:52:45] Troy: no, it moved From China to the Middle East, which, and then ultimately to Europe. the French were very material in popularizing and standardizing the, the structure of this set of things. and they established suits for them. it's probably the most flexible and most
played,
[00:53:07] Alex: cards.
[00:53:08] Troy: yes game of all time. I'll just build on it a little bit.
it, kind of was revolutionized with printing cuz they had to be made by hand before that. And there was a brief time because they were associated with gambling where. They were taxed in the, in England. plane cards were taxed, leading people to reuse old decks or create homemade ones. yeah, originally Harts represented the church spades.
The military clubs, which were originally clovers represented agriculture and diamonds, the merchant class, that's you,
Alex. 52 cards represents 52 weeks. Four Suits. Represents
four seasons. No, but I did do a little chat. G P T
Research, as you can tell, and the most important games. My favorite card game is cribbage.
[00:53:54] Brian: Cribbage,
[00:53:55] Troy: cards on a board. Anyway, look, I have a deck of cards here from the Great Hotel in the Desert in California. Have you ever been there? 29 Palms in Joshua Tree.
[00:54:04] Brian: no,
[00:54:04] Troy: I
like buying cards when I go to funky little places in hotels
[00:54:08] Alex: I love,
Texas Hold them. cards were also, Nintendo's claim to fame. They were the first Japanese manufacturer of, high quality plastic cards, they launched a Nintendo. And they're having a pretty good week because they
[00:54:22] Troy: It's gonna be the biggest game of the year.
Zelda, this
[00:54:25] Alex: I'm gonna wait till the New York time tells me about it,
[00:54:27] Brian: Oh my God.
don't get him riled up about
[00:54:30] Alex: and it is such a cultural phenomenon, guys, that game is, is
[00:54:34] Brian: What is wrong with, I still don't understand what your problem is with, I, I saw some, I was gonna put it in, but I thought you might like explode That's something else about Zelda in the New York Times. Something less immersive, but still like about the legacy of Zelda. It's fine. It's for a general audience.
[00:54:49] Alex: no, that's fine.
[00:54:49] Troy: I,
gotta tell you, I feel like I want to get it, Alex. I want to play it,
[00:54:52] Alex: yeah, it's great.
[00:54:53] Troy: but I always feel like that when video games come up, I want to play them and then I don't ever get around to it.
What do you got, Brian? Cheetos in
[00:55:01] Brian: No, that's it. That's all. What do you mean? Like, I don't, like, I'm not a, I'm not a cards guy. I mean, I used to collect baseball cards, but I don't like cards games. And I think poker is douchey. No offense to Texas hold them. I just
think like, there's just too many people get into poker and a certain type of people play poker.
Not all
[00:55:17] Troy: have you ever sat down with your with friends and played a game of hearts? You ever played hearts? Brian,
[00:55:21] Brian: Yeah, sure.
[00:55:22] Troy: it's fun.
[00:55:23] Brian: Yeah. I don't mind it. you know, you're at a cabin or something like that. I, I wouldn't do it like on a Tuesday night in New York. No
[00:55:29] Troy: Do you want to come over Thursday?
[00:55:30] Brian: play cards.
[00:55:31] Troy: Yeah,
[00:55:33] Alex:
[00:55:33] Brian: Not really
[00:55:34] Troy: One thing, well, one thing, one last thing I, I don't know if we can end on this, but I was a little shaken last night guys. By. That article in the New York Times about succession last night was off the charts.
Good.
What a what a brilliant, brilliant episode. Not only were there amazing zingers, but just the momentum in the episode.
It was an election episode, Alex. So good. Anyway, what I was shaken by is, and Alex you'll remember some of this, but we built a company around the notion of independent voices being important to media. And as such, we either bought their media companies. An example would be like read, write, web or Dog star or remodel Easter.
This was, the company was called Say Media was the president of it. Or we partnered with them to help monetize and the most important kind of north star at the time in the mommy blogging world was deuce and it was an incredibly important and influential, Kind of blog, and she was a gifted writer and, kind of laid it all out for everybody.
her depression, her struggles as as a mother,trouble with, alcohol, all kinds of stuff. And I found out last night that she passed away that she committed suicide. I didn't know that. But, it just kind of brought back that kind of a bunch of memories from that time, which was a wonderful time was when I met Alex.
But, the same media of building that company and the first generation of, kind of independent media on the internet, which was really blogging.
[00:57:07] Alex: Yeah,
[00:57:07] Brian: Hmm.
[00:57:07] Alex: the first influencers.
[00:57:09] Troy: and then Brian, you made a comment that, you thought that in some ways that we would see a lot more of that kind of, personal struggles with people that kind of set their lives up to be, influential media creators on, social media.
I think we've seen some of it already,
[00:57:25] Brian: Yeah, I don't mean to draw like a direct line, but I mean everything, I didn't, I didn't know Heather Armstrong at all, but, everything I read about it, I think a lot of the stuff of independent creators is overblown from that aspect. I, first, I like rolled my eyes at a lot of the mental health stuff, but it's super stressful, I think for, for people to have their lives, be monetized in that way because you have strangers who come and say terrible things about you, like all the time.
It's like nobody feels sorry for like celebrities cause it's like, oh, they're rich or something like this. man, it would suck. I think there's a reason that Ben Affleck like looks depressed every time. Like a paparazzi's are like swarming around him.
I would too,
[00:58:04] Alex: Yeah.
[00:58:05] Brian: let him smoke a cigarette.
[00:58:07] Brian: and I think normal people quote unquote normal people are, are getting pulled into that world. And we see, like in the current online world, it's, it's pretty vicious. And some people take it to heart. a lot of this anti, journalists or tech.
That's why like I'm sort of on the side is very few people have other people who come and tell 'em they're idiots or they're unethical and they're liars and they're scum. And for some reason if you're, if you're like a reporter now this is a regular thing and that sucks. Like nobody jobs, you don't have that.
[00:58:40] Alex: I mean, it is,
that is a good point. And we were talking about how important it was to build your own personal brand and your media brand being the individual that comes with a price. there's something nice about writing for the Economist and not being written up.
[00:58:54] Brian: Right. Just getting paid and moving on with your life. I think it's something I, I even think about making this podcast, do I want the attention? I think the best people, the people are behind the scenes who don't get mixed up with that. They don't even know, like people don't even know about them. You know, like when there's like billionaires that pop up and you're like, I never even heard of
this person. I'm
like, that person is doing it. Right.
[00:59:11] Alex: Yeah.
Yeah.
[00:59:12] Troy: Mm-hmm. Anyway, we feel for
Heather's family and her children, and
[00:59:17] Alex: Yeah.
[00:59:18] Outro
[00:59:18] Brian: thank you all for listening. we'll be back next week with a new episode.
[00:59:22] Troy: I feel like I need to come clean on the podcast. It's been a pretty stressful podcast because I'm managing a situation and Alex, I see his poor.
I think he brought a
bucket in Alex, didn't you
Alex's
kid is next to a bucket
[00:59:34] Brian: I,
[00:59:35] Troy: the floor.
[00:59:35] Alex: Yes. That is what's happening here.
All right, well, on that note, thanks folks. Let's, let's maybe wrap it
up
here.
[00:59:43] Brian: Thanks.
[00:59:44] Alex: I appreciate your understanding. With everything going on,
[00:59:49] Troy:


PVA S1E37
PVA S1E37
[00:00:00] Brian: Do you know how many, companies that you've never heard of are running private jets in order to fly agency and, marketers out to can,
[00:00:09] Alex: And like those, they're running on a resource they're quickly running out of those
[00:00:12] Brian: Human attention.
[00:00:13] Alex: Human detention money. I say that, but actually,I think advertising is making a comeback. I
[00:00:18] Brian: Well, I wanna get into that because we we're getting a lot of fed mail about you, but I was
[00:00:21] Alex: let's start the show.
[00:00:22] Brian: Oh yeah, no, no. We're gonna start the show, but I wanna slide, I wanna slide in, a conversational ad unit about what I'm doing and can, that was why I was bringing it up.
[00:00:31] Troy: you're kidding me. Right.
[00:00:32] Brian: No, I'm not at all. That's
[00:00:33] Troy: But you, maybe you should talk to Alex and I before
[00:00:36] Brian: no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
[00:00:38] Troy: Pimp
[00:00:38] Brian: That's not how it works, that this is organic. So anyway, so I'm doing,
[00:00:42] Alex: is, this is a native ad
[00:00:43] Brian: I'm doing three days. Let me just explain because we're not gonna sell it if you guys talk over me. so I'm doing three days of events with my partners at ke.
they partner with Paramount and they do this must shop TV where you can shop the look like in the shows and
[00:00:57] Troy: you have 10 seconds left to make your pitch.
[00:00:59] Brian: Okay, well that's it. So people should come to, I'm doing this thing called the New Attention Economy in partnership with my friends at ke and we got people like Kirk, McDonald's.
And we're gonna talk about how you build sustainable media businesses. They were having cocktails on, the Monday and then on Tuesday night, I'm having a leader's dinner at a very fancy place. I, I invited you,
[00:01:19] Troy: We're running outta time, Brent.
[00:01:20] Brian: our friend Neil Vogel is collaborating with the Rebooting LLC on a cocktail and conversations, event at the dash villa.
Because I don't have a villa. I have an Airbnb
[00:01:31] Troy: That's fun.
[00:01:32] Alex: all I have to say is I picked the right week to quit coffee. I'm gonna have to, slap myself awake after
[00:01:37] Brian: if any of you listening want one of these conversational add units, get in touch. It's gonna work, I'm telling you.
[00:01:46] Welcome
[00:02:08] Brian: Welcome to people versus algorithms, A show about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Marcy. I run the Rebooting, which will be hosting three days of events in Cannes next month in partnership with Curve Interactive. You should join us, find out more information in the show notes, or by signing up for the Rebooting newsletter.
each week I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor Troy Young. And Alex Schleifer, former head of design at Airbnb and founder of Universal Entities, and someone I believe I can get to come around to taste full sponsorship messages on this podcast This week, Troy, Alex and I discuss a variety of topics ranging from Alex's long running beef with advertising.
I try to show him that how it can be done elegantly, we also discuss whether the hype around video gaming being a truly mainstream cultural phenomenon matches what's happening on the ground. The Legend of Zelda anniversary has elicited tons of retrospectives that annoy the hell out of Alex. I don't get it.
I played video games through college that moved on with my life. I feel like we've been told nonstop that gaming is the future of entertainment and it's a massive industry. No doubt. I have nephews that are immersed in gaming nonstop, and I might be getting old, but I don't find it completely healthy anymore than social media.
Addiction is healthy. I also wonder. If this type of mainstream shared cultural phenomenon that entertainment has in the past produced will be produced by gaming and beyond that, it's becoming increasingly clear that the notion that gaming's undeniable popularity will give rise to eSports leagues was a matter of what one analyst told the New York Times was too much hype and too little value.
Which brings us to the issue of sports programming in general. For all the hand bringing over the new austerity era. In streaming, linear TV continues to struggle and now faces the prospect of ESPN pulling out of the cable bundle like Google Messing with search in response to AI's incursion. The separation of sports from the cable bundle would be a tectonic change.
Some change is incremental, but these changes are not. And speaking of change, we spend time on whether AI will see the rise of the SUPERPOWERED individual promised long ago by Thomas Friedman in the Lexus in the olive tree. AI gets a lot of focus about replacing humans, but we will spend time on how these tools can actually augment humans to accomplish more and how that will change the organizations of the future.
I'm of the belief that for better or worse, more people will pursue an independent path, and instead of joining hierarchical companies will form alliances with others and accomplish specific tasks and execute various projects. Web three was too early and too obscure across the board, but the idea around decentralized autonomous organizations seemed directionally accurate to me.
At least. I don't think many of us will wait for this nirvana to produce itself. Instead, I expect we'll see a lot of L L C on L L C action as more people take an independent path. What comes next will be interesting and that's for sure. Of the belief that many of the shifts will be empowering for many people, but the realist in me is reminded of what m i t economist Darren Asa Malu, I'm sorry, I'm probably mispronouncing his name reminds us of the Power dynamics.
At play in every tech disruption. Even going back to the industrial revolution, this is what Darren said in a recent FT weekend interview. Yes, you got progress, but you also had costs that were huge and very long lasting. A hundred years of much harsher conditions for working people, real wages, worse health than living conditions, less autonomy, greater hierarchy.
And the reason that we came out of it wasn't some law of economics. But rather a grassroots social struggle in which unions, more progressive politics and ultimately better institutions, played a key role and a redirection of technological change away from pure automation also contributed.
Importantly, winners and losers, heroes and villains. These are the ancient narratives now increasingly driven by technology when in previous times they were built around religion. AI will force us to come to terms with not just what it means to be an individual, but what it means to be human. As we are forced to confront, the convenient lines, we tend to draw around what constitutes intelligence and consciousness as we take that license to mistreat all manner of life on earth, from animals to nature.
always, we appreciate. Any and all feedback, you give. I got a few nice notes this week, but one, that stood out was, from Mike Stich, who wrote pba, has made its way into my group of favorite pods and also has become one of my most valuable sources of product inspiration.
for giving us in the digital media slash adtech industry, something to look forward to each week. Thank you so much, Mike. We'd love to hear from you. so please do send your feedback, to brian@therebooting.com and if you can, leave us a rating in a review, wherever you get this, podcast cuz it helps other people, discover the podcast.
And if for some reason you would like to, talk about sponsoring people versus algorithms, I've convinced, Troy was easier than Alex, but both Troy and Alex. That we are open for business. And so, get in touch. It's brian@throughrebooting.com. We'll figure out our way to, integrate you into the podcast in a way that makes sense, for everyone involved, because I think there's a lot of value here.
Hope you enjoy our conversation.
All right, Alex, I wanna talk about a couple things to start with. One is that I've been
[00:07:10] Troy: Are you gonna talk about his newfound popularity
[00:07:13] Brian: yes I am, because
[00:07:14] Troy: the breakout sensation of this
[00:07:16] Brian: I've been getting a lot of notes, which, and mostly positive about the podcast, that's an
[00:07:21] Troy: Mostly you get a lot of negative stuff.
[00:07:23] Brian: No, well, I filter it, you know how it is, Troy.
you guys are more sensitive to negative feedback than I am.
[00:07:28] Alex: we like to improve ourselves.
Feedback is a gift.
[00:07:30] Brian: Well, one of the, the things that's emerging is that you are distressingly, I think becoming a star of the podcast. So I just wanna read you one.
[00:07:39] Troy: Do you remember in the beginning when he wouldn't say anything? He's like, oh no, I'm just a producer, sir.
[00:07:43] Brian: Yeah. No, but I think that's charming in a way. That's a, he's a reluctant podcast star. I didn't ask her if I could, say her name so I'm not gonna say it, this is quote since Alex seems to be getting some heat, which a few people said, which I didn't know that we were bullying.
Alex. I just thought I'd add that I think he's an important voice. Media is way too naval gazey, and I love his, who the fuck cares about this reality check re, buzzfeed slash media. Generally it's just a vibe we could use more of. And I say that as a member of the media.
[00:08:13] Troy: Hmm.
[00:08:13] Alex: Oh hell, that's great.
[00:08:14] Troy: yeah,
[00:08:15] Brian: So
[00:08:16] Troy: you're like the Johnny Rotten of this podcast.
Not quite the Sid
[00:08:19] Brian: you have a total path to, cuz this is why you're gonna be in Cannes next year, like on stage. Because advertising people, they love to be de base. They love someone who comes and tells them that what they do is worthless and pernicious and a
[00:08:34] Alex: You know, some people charge good money for that.
[00:08:38] Brian: This is always a way to make money.
[00:08:40] Alex: this is nice to hear. oh, I try not to be mean-spirited, but I do have this complicated relationship with advertising and I do think it makes things generally worse and I do think that media, is constantly, hurt by advertising and technology put together.
That's a really bad mixture when that happens. But I also don't see any other ways of doing things. So, it's not like I have all the answers. Like the Great Neva, which was a beautiful search engine, which I was supporting with my money, that was meant to do non-ad supported. searches on the internet just shut down because they can't make that business model work.
And because everybody fucking wants ads on everything.
[00:09:17] Brian: No, everyone doesn't want aver ads on everything. The, the reason that Neva didn't work, if I could say, is you don't have to be better than Google. You have to be 50 to 75% better than Google. And I think this is interesting the chat sheet PT and, and being possibly being a
[00:09:31] Troy: Wasn't Nevas plan to introduce Superior Subs subscription search, as a way
[00:09:36] Alex: Yeah. Yeah. I was, I was a paying customer.
[00:09:38] Troy: Yeah. The, the, I mean, that's a, it's a terrible idea. I mean,
with all due respect to it,
[00:09:42] Alex: Like, we, we, is it a terrible
[00:09:45] Troy: terrible, it's absolutely
[00:09:46] Brian: Yeah. Only like a
few Germans ever signed up for that.
[00:09:49] Alex: Okay. Let's talk about a lot of things that have become worse over time and let's
try to figure out why they become
[00:09:54] Troy: if I could just put a spot on this agenda. I have
a very
timely one. Thank you.
[00:09:58] Alex: put
one.
[00:09:59] Troy: Okay. love my mother, hadn't seen her in a long time. Went to see her. she's a lovely person, doing great and she wants to watch TV and her TV existence because of, is my assessment of the situation because of hardware manufacturers attempting to build a program guide and content and advertising into the hardware, there exists a whole new dimension now outside of your cable interface where they, when you turn the TV on, They make it look like it's a whole world of programming and they do it with a lot of what are called fast channels,
anybody that has a couple hundred hours of video programming can create their own bespoke channel from an endless, stream of, prices, right? Episodes to fail Army from, it's basically like curated channels from YouTube
[00:10:49] Brian: fail Army. Is that crackle? I like crackle.
[00:10:51] Troy: no, that was the company that was bought by, what's it called?
[00:10:54] Brian: Fail Army is Oh,
[00:10:55] Troy: it was bought
by Trusted Media brands. Yeah. anyway, my mother lands in this experience and told me for the last three weeks she hasn't been able to watch the news. And I'm like, well, because there's no news here, mom, you're not in the right interface. You have to get over to your cable.
Programming guide. Now to get over to the cable programming guide, she has to hit source on her crazy complicated LG remote control that has a pointer where the little mouse thing shakes around cuz she's got a little bit of a shake. Now she's older she can't move from that interface to her cable interface where she would get news and local programming and the Canadian networks and all that stuff.
So she has no way to navigate or even really understand the game like moving between these two worlds,
[00:11:42] Alex: you covered that, right? But
[00:11:43] Troy: well, the reason why, to get back to your point is because LG is heavily incented to fill her interface up with advertising, carrying content so that they can find a new revenue model for the
[00:11:57] Brian: Well, who wants to be a dumb pipe or a dumb box?
Nobody.
[00:12:00] Alex: but wait, and this is my issue with advertising is specifically performance advertising and all the stuff that sucks up our attention or is fighting for our attention. The business model of TVs has long not been about selling the TV and has quickly become about selling attention, and therefore, advertising and performance advertising always leads to a place that is anti-user no matter what you guys say about the best advertising, none of these things are good for the consumer
as an
experience.
None of them.
[00:12:28] Brian: performance They're two
[00:12:30] Alex: When was the last time, I was trying to think about that because I was trying to get to have a more optimistic view of advertising. TVs are definitely something that was ruined by advertising, a search. The internet also ruined by, by by advertising, I guess that it's
[00:12:42] Brian: Christ. This is not gonna help the freaking ad
[00:12:45] Alex: Well, but here's the thing. I guess that it also helps progress the same way oil helps progress, but also ruins the environment. I think advertising is the, petrochemical of the media world.
[00:12:55] Troy: hey.
[00:12:56] Brian: anti,
[00:12:56] Alex: when was the last time, hear me out.
hear me out. you remember when we used to see nice ads or we used to talk about advertising that was good.
Or even agencies would come into a company and start, creating this partnership relationship. But when was the last time an ad agency came into one of those companies and became an actual partner for those companies?
They're not like everybody's just a media buyer and helping you know,
them do programmatic sh*t
[00:13:20] Brian: that's why from a sociological perspective, I love to go to Cannes where I'm doing three days of events with Kev, new
[00:13:28] Troy: Hey, Al, Al, Alex. You know what? My son and I tried to, kind of create a mock learning exercise for my mother where I held up the two remotes and we said, quick, you wanna watch Netflix? What do you do? Which remote? And she started to panic and freak out. And then I went, went out with someone when I was there and they said they had the same problem as I did and they showed me a photo of two remote controls that they customized for their parent.
And they had wrapped it in sticky notes and put elastics around it only to reveal a single button that they had to press to get Netflix or to change the
source was
very funny. it
[00:14:05] Alex: it is insanity. And the crazy thing is because, Advertising allows those products to get on the store shelves cheaper than anything else. There is no space for a competitor to come and say, Hey, we'll build a good product. The only company that's ever been able to do that is Apple.
And even they are going to start looking at advertising and start going, yum, yum, yum. Look at that. If I look for Airbnb, maybe we could put Expedia up top and make a few bucks there. it fucking sucks guys. Guys, it
fucking sucks.
[00:14:31] Brian: Well, guess who? Okay, Alex. Guess who is gonna be a major presence at Cannes, where I'm doing three days of events with Curve next week. That's Apple. Apple is coming to Cannes and they're gonna have a massive presence, and it's gonna be right next to Amazon.
Remember Amazon, the Jeff Bezos with advertising is, tax. You pay for having a shitty product. Well, guess what? Amazon's knee deep in the ad business now.
[00:14:55] Alex: I mean amazon.com is an ad network, it's a massive ad platform.
[00:15:00] Brian: world is an ad network. You're tilting at windmills.
[00:15:02] Alex: yeah, I know, but guys, okay. Yeah. Fine. I do feel a little bit like the eco warrior, the Greenpeace guy in his little dinghy trying to tag the sides of this giant tanker that's like crushing all these baby seals because, well, you know, he's
[00:15:16] Brian: Yeah,
[00:15:16] Alex: progress.
[00:15:17] Brian: you're just a simple farmer, with a computer on your face and a family office and it's, it's,
[00:15:22] Troy: I got it for the record, he, he liked advertising a lot more when he was poor.
[00:15:26] Alex: Well, I thought we could
make it good, Troy.
We were to be, We
were, I thought we could make it good.
[00:15:31] Troy: Yeah. I think Alex won this podcast already. It's done.
[00:15:34] Brian: All right. So, but I wanna move on to something. I was reading this thing about cuz gaming is something that obviously you're completely engrossed in, I think to, to
[00:15:43] Alex: Fuck.
You know, I realized I managed to get so sorry. I realized I managed to be so antia again, even though I came in with a lot of good talking points about how I'm softening on ads. But every time I actually really think about it, it just makes me want to vomit. But let's keep going. Sorry.
[00:15:59] Brian: All right. This is a bad time for me to return to my three days of programming at the Curve Cafe. And can. all right. So I wanted to move on to talk a little bit about, gaming, cuz something I came across because I'm not a gamer. Okay. And I've, for years I just stopped anything with gaming. When I was in college as I thought adults did, they just went on to do other things.
They would read books, they would go outside and stuff. and gaming has, eaten seemingly the entertainment industry. But at the same time, I'm like reading about it, but I don't really know it. we've been trading messages about Zelda kind of confession. I've never played it. I don't even know really what Zelda is.
And I know this sort of divorces me from a larger culture. But one of the things that I've noticed is that a lot of things aren't totally mainstream in gaming. Like when you look at Twitch, I've heard about Twitch going to happen forever. It is not one of the major platforms. And this week, more news has come out with this eSport stuff that this seems like a complete zero interest rate phenomenon.
I mean, phase Klan. I remember I did a podcast with the phase Klan guy that Lee Trik years ago, and I was like, oh, it sounds interesting enough. again, for me, I'm like, does anyone really want to go to the Barclay Center and watch these people play video games? And it seems like it has been a pivot back to reality for a lot of this.
So what exactly is going on with the mainstreaming of gaming? Because I don't think it's as straight a line as sometimes it's painted.
[00:17:24] Alex: Yeah, I don't think it is. I think that sometimes the, revenue of some of these hit games kind of master fact that, people still don't talk about gaming the same way they talk about movies to their friends. still enough of a gap in, how people consume games within friend groups.
That means that not everybody's talking about the new Zelda. Like I know a lot of gamers, not everybody's playing that game right now. But, there are very few people who aren't watching at least one of the shows I'm watching, cuz I think TV's much more universal. So, it remains niche.
it's also a very deep and wide kind of, category. So, so there's some games that are deeply, deeply, specialized or hard to get into. there's full on simulations and people who get on servers that have role-playing aspects to it. theft out of five servers that are run on custom,setups where people take on roles and they have to behave as those roles.
So you can be a delivery person or a cop, or an ambulance worker and everybody's kind of, those roles. This takes up a ton of amount of time. And then there's like
mobile gaming, which everybody plays. So gaming itself is probably like a hard thing to define as, as a single
category, if that make sense.
[00:18:31] Troy: Brian's also talking about a kind of
[00:18:32] Alex: eSports, yeah.
[00:18:33] Troy: a collision of use cases, which maybe we thought made sense because of the growing popularity of, of gaming among young people. But turning that into a spectator sport because it has a competitive dimension, didn't really work right?
[00:18:48] Brian: But they were trying to make it like into a competitive sport slash like
[00:18:52] Troy: it's not very fun to, not very fun
[00:18:53] Brian: everyone lives in the same house and their personalities and whatnot and
and.
[00:18:58] Troy: it's like drone racing league. Have you ever watched drone racing? It's not very fun to watch
[00:19:02] Alex: the thing is it's
not very fun to watch. I think
[00:19:04] Brian: be the next
[00:19:05] Alex: new sports,
[00:19:06] Troy: Grandpa.
[00:19:08] Brian: Ah,
let's talk about Kurt.
[00:19:11] Alex: I mean, news sports are, really hard to popularize, even like the X ffl or something tried to become a thing. there's a bunch of different wrestling leagues. I think the only one that we've seen really stand out has been, some sort like mixed martial arts stuff.
it's hard to make things go
[00:19:25] Troy: Well, people pounding the shit out of each other is as old
as
[00:19:29] Alex: that has
[00:19:30] Brian: Yeah, but there are so many niche sports leagues now. There's a Wiffle Ball, national Wiffle Ball
[00:19:35] Alex: I know I'm talking about the things that really attracts the big dollars. UFC is the, is the last one. and I think it's hard to keep that attention when you get older. I think watching eSports is great when you're spending a lot of time playing those games. I was a pretty competitive player when I was young.
but you lose interest and it's kind of hard to
[00:19:52] Troy: Did you, Did you, rank in Cyprus? Were you big in Cyprus?
[00:19:55] Alex: we didn't have ranks back then, but I was, pretty unbeaten at Quake at the time. That's how old I am
[00:20:00] Troy: would people recognize you at the Cypress Grocery store?
[00:20:03] Alex: no, but there was a competition once where if anybody could beat me and my, playing partner, they would get one years free of internet, one year of free internet
[00:20:11] Brian: Did you guys used to, did you guys used to hang out at the arcade at all as kids?
[00:20:15] Troy: I did,
[00:20:16] Alex: Oh, I did. Yeah, for sure. for sure.
it's funny, the
[00:20:19] Brian: I think kids are screwed up because they don't hang out with the arcade and they're at home with their headsets on, I know I'm gonna be the grumpy guy. This And that's why I, I'm troubled by gaming because all the addictive things that we talk about, about social media, I'm sorry, they exist in gaming too, and I don't think
[00:20:34] Troy: Except gaming at least has a social dimension. Brian, for my son, gaming in some ways was a savior because his best friend when we left California, and him played video games constantly,
and so it was as much as
it's
it's,
[00:20:47] Brian: binary and stuff like this. Just like social media. I mean, I met my wife through Facebook
[00:20:51] Alex: right. the difference with social media is that there's a social aspect to it where you're constantly comparing yourself to each other and it, depresses
[00:21:00] Brian: But you don't think gaming has similar downsides
[00:21:02] Alex: no, I mean, gaming's been around for a long time. I don't know,
[00:21:05] Brian: Oh yeah, I was playing Donkey Kong a little different.
[00:21:08] Alex: is playing a video game worse than watching,reality TV for an hour.
You know?
But so is watching those goddamn ads you're trying to sell
first of all. No, cuz it's three days of robust programming. And honestly, you're gonna learn something. There's gonna be drinks afterwards. There's gonna be those little french, cucumber sandwiches, Yeah,
[00:21:28] Brian: you
know what I'm talking about.
[00:21:30] Alex: I do probably,
[00:21:31] Brian: The French do an amazing little sandwich. oh, the, just the last thing on since we've moved into like gaming, don't know if you guys saw that, espn, is making its move to finally.
Go d t c. I think a lot of times when we're focused on the streaming wars, and I know this isn't totally our area, but maybe we'll get someone on, we can talk in more depth of this. Is it's the linchpin that's holding together cable still. we talk about the mess of fast channels and stuff, but is still dying and it's a major problem.
I mean, I met with someone earlier this week at a broadcaster who, man, they're still in like a spiral and they don't have an off-ramp to it. And if sports gets pulled out, that sucks, man, that's gonna be a world of hurt.
[00:22:13] Alex: I know anyone personally that has a cable connection that I know of that has a cable subscription.
[00:22:18] Troy: I have one,
[00:22:19] Alex: Oh, well there you go. I know one person,
[00:22:20] Troy: well, I have it in Alex. I have it via YouTube tv, and that was a game changer for me. Because we can do it anywhere. You can do it on your phone. You can do it
[00:22:28] Alex: but So you watch sports on it, right?
[00:22:30] Troy: yeah, we all, my whole family, we love watching sports. Yeah.
[00:22:33] Brian: there's just, there's just 80 million people with cable tv, so That's true. doesn't know any of them cuz they
don't,
they don't live on
farms.
[00:22:41] Alex: none of the cool young people,
[00:22:43] Brian: everyone gets starlink. You probably know more people who have starlink than have cable, right?
[00:22:48] Alex: Yeah. I probably do. Yeah. it is a sample problem, but I mean, does anybody under 30 get cable? or if you could get sports any other way, would you ever get cable? No.
[00:22:57] Brian: I think this is where it inevitably goes. But the problem is when you pull out, it's kind of like search, right? When you pull that, out and when you pull live sports out and when you pull out s e o, a lot of shit breaks.
[00:23:09] Alex: I
[00:23:10] Troy: A hundred percent, and B, it's gonna break and there's gonna be a whole lot of pain for on the business side and on the consumer side. it's a big thing, Brian, a couple things that come to mind for me. First of all, It was a tax before, cuz it was virtually in every bundle at almost $10 per subscriber.
Literally 20 times what a normal cable channel, charged you. They were typically around 50 cents to a dollar. even those were terrific businesses at that amount. But when you're in, 80 to a hundred million homes and they pay you that tax every month, it's a pretty good business. I saw it firsthand cuz you know that Hearst is a shareholder of espn and, it's gonna be really sobering when only the people that want it pay for it.
You're gonna see a big price increase and, real declines in profitability, I suspect at ESPN and therefore Disney. But the thing that I find confusing is, am I gonna have to have all of these different streaming services to watch football every weekend? it's gonna be confusing.
if I want it from N B C or CBS B or ESPN or Amazon, my mother can't use her remote controls. How's she gonna watch football games across four services?
[00:24:16] Brian: I think the NFL goes last. I think the NFL is too big when we talk about sports leagues. if you look at like the top 10, most watched programs, the NFL has eight of them.
[00:24:26] Troy: Right. But but
multiple companies
buy rights from them.
[00:24:30] Alex: the end game. I think the problem is we're stuck in this uncanny place right now where things still work like channels, but the set top box wants to work like a computer, And so the way it should really work, and I think,apple kind of tried that, but you know, folks like Netflix aren't playing along, that the machine is just something you talk to or request and say, show me the game, and then it just opens the app that has a game, it shouldn't, the concept of switching channels and stuff like that needs to go away.
But it's just because everybody that's doing business like doesn't understand, it's like, oh, we can still have our thing with our logo on it.
[00:25:01] Troy: but
the intersection of the time-based use case, which is the programming guide and the library based one, which is a collection of shows like Netflix has never been easy to, kind of mesh chax,
right? They're d they're different, constructs. One is, what am I watching right now? And it's defined by time across a, horizontal scale.
And the other one's show me something, by show name or topic or category of entertainment that I wanna
[00:25:26] Brian: Yeah. But isn't this the, the typical thing where technology pulls apart what used to be a bundle and creates a mess, a total mess, and then guess what? Technology comes in and it's like we're gonna rebundle it in a smarter way and we're gonna tax everyone. It's just gonna be a new tax
[00:25:41] Alex: the cable bundle was always anti consumer. it was always a, a bad deal, a bad interface. you got
a bunch of shit you didn't want.
[00:25:49] Troy: on the contrary. It was great cuz
it was simple and everybody had it and it was reliable. Hey Brian, do you have cable?
[00:25:56] Brian: I don't, but I did in Florida because it came with, the like homeowners association.
[00:26:00] Troy: do you watch ga? How do you watch games now? Like basketball
[00:26:03] Brian: I.
[00:26:03] Troy: and stuff?
[00:26:04] Brian: Oh, I dip in and out of Hulu. So when the Sixers lost, I was bummed, but then I just went and canceled Hulu. And that's gonna be the problem with live sports too, is when you move into this a la carte world, everyone's just gonna go, dip in and out, cancel, Reya, where as you had a lot of that just inertia that existed with cable you know, the pie is just gonna get smaller.
It's not just gonna be divided up. It seems like it's just gonna simply get smaller. And that's, I know to me in a lot of ways, it's the story of media is it's not like you can't make money in it, but the pie get smaller,
[00:26:35] Troy: on, on, an unrelated note, does a guy like you shift from Philly to Miami?
[00:26:39] Brian: What do you mean? Like, Rudy, Miami's
[00:26:41] Troy: for
in the playoffs? No, no, no. They're in, they're gonna be in
[00:26:44] Brian: Oh yeah, yeah. No, I'll root for Jimmy Butler because I think Jimmy Butler's like hilarious and he's
[00:26:49] Troy: he's a
he's great. He's a dog.
[00:26:52] Brian: see, he knows how to do tasteful
[00:26:54] Troy: Look what's happening right now. Alex is zoned out. Alex is completely zoned out right
[00:26:59] Alex: Yeah.
[00:27:00] Brian: gotta keep it going.
[00:27:01] Alex: Apple was released in the latest
Apple tv? They released,
[00:27:04] Brian: back to some apple release.
[00:27:05] Alex: they released multi view for sports for their MLS coverage. So you can watch multiple sports at once,
[00:27:11] Brian: Oh,
[00:27:12] Alex: which is sounds way healthier than playing video games. So
[00:27:15] Brian: yeah. Sports bonds, people all this mess. It's gonna get people to go to the bar sports are a way for men to be able to safely speak to each other and, and be open with each other.
You know, it doesn't matter if there's a
[00:27:26] Alex: Yeah,
[00:27:27] Troy: Yeah.
[00:27:27] Brian: screen, it's gonna save masculinity. It's in a bad place.
Wa Listen to Scott Galloway. Okay?
[00:27:35] Troy: Okay. Do we have a,
you guys, I, I, I, do we, I
feel like we, do we have a top?
No,
I, I don't want to take over. I just wanna know if we have have we
[00:27:44] Alex: The, yeah. Is that Brian's gonna do that thing in cans for three days with curve
[00:27:48] Brian: Yeah. Thank you. See repetition works. Alex, no, this is the show actually, Troy. and, and welcome. I was trying to do something different. Usually I was trying to get more organized, but then,
um, you're not liking it. So I wanna move on to the thing that, you wanted to talk about. Cuz we, we haven't talked about AI for a little while and I think it's good. to be honest with you,
I gotta admit, I was just, I, I get tired of it. I get tired of it even though I'm reading this book. God, human animal machine. it's very fascinating. the big thing that really opened my eyes that I don't know why I never thought about it before was the fact that we've replaced religion with technology I think there was this one quote in there that really, resonated with me that basically said that we're relying on all the existential questions, that have become engineering problems.
And that really when religion used to be a way for us to try to the world around us, and now we rely on technology for the answer. Like it's not gonna be a narrative we're gonna know for sure. And, I don't know. I think that's an interesting. I got it from that Ezra Klein. he does have three books or something with one of his guests and it's a really good book.
I highly recommend it. I'm only like halfway through, but I wanna talk about what ai, how AI on a more prosaic level is gonna change the organization. Cuz I have this theory basically that going to sort of turbocharge a lot of individual size businesses, particularly in the media industry.
Cuz I think you can build really good and really profitable businesses. You're just gonna be smaller and I think AI can be a tremendous, source of leverage. But you have some thoughts, Troy, I believe this and how it's going to pose both an organizational challenge and opportunity.
[00:29:29] Troy: Yeah. well maybe we'll start here. Jonah knows Jonah is, Chelsea Pertti's, brother Alex,
Jonah knows that the only way to save, Buzzfeed is to reinvent it with ai. And so just before the call, I thought I would try their latest, AI tool, which is inside of the Tasty App.
And it allows you to sort of say, I'm depressed and I don't feel like cooking. What should I eat? And it will give you like, 10 chicken dinners, it
[00:30:00] Brian: TUI by the way.
[00:30:01] Troy: tui is what it's called. Yeah. and so I think that everybody, I guess just to back up a little bit, so you're, you're seeing, buzzfeed experiment, with ai, just like they were kind of thought leaders and innovators around social, and I think that you're starting to see at least a couple companies I'm involved with obviously there's a huge amount of experimentation around how it assists editors in journalists in creating content more effectively as a research tool or, someone that can create a kind of skeleton of an article or fill in parts of it or whatever.
I think that's really reasonable. Create art, all those use cases make lots of sense. And then, I think where you're starting to see it now is how it assists people in. a kind of back and forth, particularly around like consumer journeys. So if you want to configure, a car or find the right credit card or whatever, you're gonna see a lot of people draw, either open source or chat gpt, APIs to parse through policy information or what cards are right?
If I spend at this level, how many points can I get? You're gonna see kind of localized versions of AI and on pages that'll make them smarter and better and render custom tables and all kinds of stuff like that. and I think that underneath of everything there's gonna be this kind of tension around what gets done at a page level locally by a media brand and what gets done by chat g p T in a centralized way because it can, process a huge amount.
I mean, it can kind of solve so many use cases. It's a question of how often will you leave that central kind of vortex to go get something done somewhere else? And then, they're gonna try to bring you into their place of business with plugins. And I gotta tell you, I'm kind of wandering a bit, but the whole plugin experiment seemed like really wonderful when I first observed it, and I hadn't played with it.
Now, having played with it, I'm changing my mind. And I guess it's just a period of, early stage of innovation. But most of the plug-ins are not very u useful. so for example, if you use the kayak plugin and you say, I want to rent a car in British Columbia, for these days, get me this kind of car, what it does is it goes out and it gives you, after about four minutes a list of, three links to Kayak, where you'd go find the car.
And as such, it's hugely inefficient, like faceted search inside of Kayak gets you the answer in two seconds, it's really useful cuz it's structured for the use case as opposed to this back and forth with chat. That doesn't work very well yet. you know, it's interesting to see how it plays out between the center and the periphery and what role things like, plugins will end up playing in this
[00:32:38] Brian: Mm-hmm. I wanted to talk about the organization.
[00:32:40] Troy: Well,
[00:32:41] Brian: I meant like humans, how you built and run a company being changed. Cuz a lot of this we talk a lot about the consumer expectations changing and it's obviously still very early with this stuff, but to me the most profound changes are going to be internal.
They
[00:32:56] Troy: yeah, yeah. I had to talk about the, is it my turn to
[00:32:59] Brian: Alright. Of course it is.
You were,
you were very patient in the first half of this.
[00:33:04] Troy: I'll bring Alex into this elegantly, I had to talk about this at a meeting I went to, last week. two things. One is I use two human use cases. We talk about AI people into sort of superhumans and how it's gonna change the structure of organizations.
Is it gonna make them less hierarchical? are we gonna find ways to empower people that are much more comfortable with ai that can do a huge amount more work because they're more effective with tools? How do we deal with people like that and how do we benefit from them in organizations to think is a big question.
And it's so overwhelming right now. Alex made the suggestion that you take 5% of your processes. Or 5% of the places where you, spend a lot of time and try to reinvent them with ai, which is, I think a good rule of thumb. anyway, to get to the point I used Alex and this other guy I work with Dennis as examples of people that are using AI every day in how they work, are really inspiring to me as people that are becoming more effective.
So what you told me, Alex, is the following. You use Discord, you've integrated mid journey in as a visualization tool natively inside of Discord, cuz that's how it runs anyway. you're starting to train AI on your gaming narratives so that there could be a kind of organic back and forth between the people in your company.
when you're thinking about how to evolve a character or a narrative conceivably in the future, that could become a kind of infrastructure to guide players. Like you could open that up to the community when the game is released to the public. So the way you're using technology, I think is an inspiration, or a use case of how, companies are gonna use it in the future.
another guy just then I'll throw it over to you guys. A guy named Dennis I mentioned a minute ago. I swear the guy does
the work of, yeah, he does the work of 10 people. And if you think about it, Dennis has an army of robots that supports him in what he does every
[00:34:58] Brian: do you wanna just talk about drug hunter? because this is where I am like sort of interested, I want to be a little selfish here beyond, promoting my events because I have another event I'm gonna be promoting later. because I think what Dennis is doing with drug Hunter and selfishly what I'm trying to do with the rebooting I am doing it is you're trying to use the advantages of having an incredibly lean organization.
I'm trying to workshop a thing called Nano publisher, and you can cover a ton of ground and I would imagine you're gonna be able to cover a ton more ground as a nano publisher,
[00:35:26] Troy: It is insane what dentist gets done with 10 people.
Insane. Well, drug hunter is a, hyper vertical publishing media brand designed for drug hunters are, chemists that pursue the creation of new drugs. And so it's vertical media targeted to people that. Are, in labs and working at drug companies and work in academia, doing research and developing drugs.
so the content is extremely dense. Somewhere sits betwe. It sits between kind of news about the drug industry and, that are happening, and academic journals or journals like nature or,stuff that are, very expensive subscriptions designed for the scientific community.
And so Dennis kinda sits between those two things. one of his features, for example is Molecule of the Month. That give you a sense of the kind of stuff he does. And they use AI to assist in the sales process. They use AI to write contracts. They use AI to write stubs of articles to help brief the PhDs that write the content.
it's manifests kind of everywhere in the organization and as a result, it's just a really, really efficient company.
[00:36:32] Brian: I wanna have, Dennis on my other podcast.
[00:36:34] Troy: You should, he's great.
[00:36:35] Brian: Yeah, I'm gonna do that next week. Alex, how can this change organizations and how should those of us listening? Because I think one of the things I get from people,other than loving you. and feedback is, it's a common thing that they say that they like to hear things that, they can take out of this context and then apply it in their context because we always, we all operate in different contexts.
So, I think it's really good at its best. I think this kind of media really helps people connect dots, so help people connect the dots on how they should be thinking about how AI is going to reshape their organization.
Knowing that every organization is unique.
[00:37:07] Alex: there are a lot of tools that are going to make a lot of these things easier and easier. at a basic level, there's a lot of, just productivity that you can gain back from that. I think using the five 10%, method to try to kind of replace some of the tasks you might be doing with AI kind of means you can get most out of your day.
There's a lot of like organizational planning, writing specific type of emails that you write a lot, sales funnel stuff can be done with a Chad, G p T Pro. Subscription, You open your new chat and you start to train, that conversation around creating certain things for you.
[00:37:39] Brian: So gimme like three examples of ways that you use, say, chat, GPT to scale, Alex.
[00:37:46] Alex: well, I mean, right now I've been doing it to plan my travels. So it's been really good at, kind of figuring out things around, travel, and that's all the stuff I suck at. Like finding out, doing a packing list for a trip, a specific trip to a specific place. Really good, finding places to stay or places to go eat or, organizing myself around that or feeding it an itinerary and then gets back to me.
So all that planning stuff is stuff that I find hard and it's been helping, really helpful, has been parsing contracts. So, I can kind of upload a PDF or copy and paste a contract or an invoice. So we receive some pretty complicated invoices and and I ask Chat GPT to just parse it out and give me a bullet list.
And this would've taken me an hour and it took 10 seconds. so invoices, contracts, that's side of complex,information that is like hard to analyze and, full of jargon. It does a pretty good job at if you can trust it. I wouldn't do it for like mission critical stuff at first, but just get used to the
system.
[00:38:39] Troy: about your storyboarding stuff, Alex?
[00:38:41] Alex: Yeah, definitely storyboard. I mean, we, it's like a creative field, so, being able to kind of, let me give you an example. Even if it wasn't video games, if you were trying to storyboard, let's say a remodel that you're having or,maybe you you want your Cannes tasteful kind of dinner to look a certain way, you can use that with prompting, and create something that looks the way you want and save a ton of time back and forth.
communicating ideas. And I think people should do that more and more. because right now what happens is usually the client just will write down like some sort of spec and it'll go back to whatever creative team there is, whether it's like an interior designer or an events manager or whatever, and they'll do all this mood boarding stuff.
But there are enough tools out there right now to get pretty close to what you want things to look like. And then it will save you money. and I think one of the biggest overheads in companies is communication overheads. Like how do you take something out of somebody else's brain and, put it into somebody else's brain?
And I think these generative tools can really help with that.
[00:39:34] Brian: All right, I've got a use case. I want to run it by you and tell me if AI can or cannot help doing this. So, I've been like putting together three days of programming for a curve at can, and I have all of these contacts and I have all of this material that I've been writing about, and I need to put together three days of programming at the Curve Cafe in Cannes from June 19th and 22nd.
And, it's 21st, sorry. 22nd is a different event. We'll talk about that later. I need to be able to do this efficiently and a lot of it is just like, I don't remember, I know a lot of people right from over the years there's a lot of people who are very valuable say for a publishing leaders' dinner say on, June 21st.
And how do I use AI to do that more efficiently? Because right now I'm like, just literally combing through like my database or just like trying to remember like who would be good for this? Is there a way yet, or, and will there be a way that I can basically program three days of programming a curve cafe through using ai?
[00:40:32] Alex: if you look at the tools that are available now off the shelf without you having to do a lot of, messing with APIs or stuff like that, you would probably need to do some input yourself or create a spreadsheet, of sorts or,
Try to kind of like compile some information that you could feed into a system like that and figure out what the query should be to come up with something useful. lots of tools are gonna be coming out around that, but they're not likely out yet or, readily available. stuff.
I guess a lot of the stuff's in email, right? So it's gonna be interesting to see what Google does with their email, because that's gonna be very powerful,
once they start
[00:41:04] Brian: I, have a lot of first party data, which is, I have a lot of people's names. I have their email addresses, and through that I should be able to understand where they work, whether they fit, for instance, I want people who are, let's say, director level and above or something like this.
to me, the use case would be, I would always rely on an event programming team at previous jobs It's just me really. I mean, I have a couple people helping me out. How do I scale that?
[00:41:29] Troy: Well
can I make a comment about it?
[00:41:31] Alex: Yeah, let me, I, I have a way to do it that I think would work today, but it's hypothetical. But Troy, go ahead.
[00:41:36] Troy: it's pointing out one of the weaknesses that I see that I hope gets resolved at one some point. So for example, if you are on the chat, g p t plus, you now have access to their web crawler. their code thing. What's their code thing called Alex, I forget. And their plugins. So if you say, I've been pushing it a lot to go out to the web and do things for me, Brian, which is analogous to what you want it to do, because what you would do is feed it a list of names you would have it go out to LinkedIn and you would have it bring, back, level, whatever you want it to do and say, help me figure out who to invite to my event or how I should program it.
But if you ask chat g p t to go out and analyze the New York Times homepage and bring you back the top stories, it doesn't work very well. And if you ask Bard to do it, it doesn't work well at all. And so this, the connection between these really clean models that have analyzed all this information and can produce fast results.
The connection between that and the world of the search index and the web is really clumsy right now. It doesn't really do it. And not only that, the incentives are gonna be for LinkedIn to block anybody from coming in and doing essentially what is just fancy scraping.
[00:42:44] Brian: Yeah. we used to have sort of format, I guess, at, digital where it would be the next most important job at the media company. And it would be like, whatever, how it's changing. And I think the next most important job at the AI era, media company for, for me, but for other companies is this kind of like Wrangler who knows enough about the tools.
They don't have to be technically proficient. To me it's like the new version of the product manager, right at their best, they were hackers. I know the people that I put in there, they weren't tech people and that was fine actually because they had to play a translation role, but they knew zier and some little things and stuff like this, very light.
but they understood the business use cases. I think that is someone I would absolutely hire because I could possibly do this, but I really, think that someone
[00:43:29] Troy: Yeah.
[00:43:30] Brian: a
lot younger and a lot savier, is better.
[00:43:33] Alex: I talked to a lot of companies about this stuff and this is where, a lot of companies are getting distracted by trying to kind of replace people entirely. It's, quite, frightening actually the same way Uber was kind of distracted by, investing in, self-driving cars.
But I think there is this last mile issue here, but the idea is that you could have one person, that does a lot of this via AI and learns how to use the tools and also learns on the job as the tools are changing. And I think. Your ambitions can change then, you can be more ambitious about how you, build sales channels.
You can be more ambitious about, building a, a product that might need, customer support, Which is a huge expense, but instead of having to hire a hundred people, you might be able to do it with 10. I mean, the, the system works okay now, right? With sort of chat PT four with web browsing. I just asked what's Troy's current role?
and it said Troy Young currently runs a sub called people versus algorithm, where he explores patterns and media
[00:44:25] Brian: humiliating,
Troy.
[00:44:26] Alex: that's all. Here's Acker.
[00:44:28] Brian: Sorry. with the club.
You'll be
[00:44:31] Alex: it's, impressive.
[00:44:32] Brian: soon enough.
[00:44:33] Alex: you add that with a,person that effectively does a little bit of cleanup around that and you
[00:44:37] Troy: Right. So the way I would contextualize this a little bit, Brian, I think there's a whole new set of roles coming into companies which exist to improve the connection between humans and machines, by helping us, use tools more effectively and use data more effectively. And I think it's kind of like a role of the future becomes incredibly important.
It's kind of like a fancy prompt writer, but someone that knows more than that. You mentioned Zapier, guy like Dennis would say. I use HubSpot and leads come in off my website and then I put them into the funnel and then I go out and profile that lead and say, what is this person's role in a company?
Are they high priority or not? Then I automatically send out an email to this person. I book a in-person, or I book an online demo, or I take them through the tool. So it's like a kind of
[00:45:27] Brian: Yeah,
[00:45:28] Troy: Goldberg machine
[00:45:29] Brian: but this is what I'm talking about, for little publishing companies, my last company had 20 people in sales. I compete against people with 20 people. It's just me and I do everything else, and I have a couple people help me out on the business development side and they're incredibly valuable.
what I see, just don't understand how to harness it, is the ability to compete as a nano publisher with. People who have far more resources and scale, no matter what everyone says, it depends on your definition. It is tremendous. there's so many things you can do with, the resources you have, but the reality of the media businesses, at least in the publishing is the money isn't there to support that infrastructure and it needs to be replaced.
And to me, AI is the ability, broadly speaking, to do more with less.
[00:46:12] Troy: Yeah. Dennis's line on it was, take anything that you do a million times and automate it. That's it. That's simple.
[00:46:19] Brian: Alex is either thinking and speaking like in tongues or he's microphone isn't working.
[00:46:25] Alex: Sorry,
[00:46:25] Brian: Okay,
good.
[00:46:26] Alex: heard,
[00:46:26] Brian: That was like one of those Elon Musk things where he like had a
[00:46:28] Alex: Yeah, sorry, let me take this again. I think that having somebody at your company or somebody that you hire part-time or full-time to look into these things and throwing small tasks at them and seeing how they can resolve it, is probably the best way to go.
and especially just keeping an eye on, things that are
everyone's really excited about what these things can do, but I do feel there's a lot of small startups that could be created now, and I don't know how long of a lifespan they have.
But there's a lot of very specific use cases that could be solved with these new technologies. If you built an interface specifically for that, whether it's around travel or shopping or, whatever. people are looking for very specific things that just make it easy. Right now, things aren't that easy, but imagine if you had specialized assistance around, you finding furniture or, doing things like that.
We just have parts of the interface automated. I do think there's small businesses in there that would've been huge technological lifts that are now possible with, a couple of people. So you're also gonna see a lot of
[00:47:23] Brian: Yeah. And the final thing on this that I think it's going to push forward, and it's kind of like this podcast, right in that we all have our own separate things going on, but we like collaborate on this. I think that there's gonna be more of that within, not like an all or nothing.
basically everyone is gonna be their llc and there's gonna be a lot of LLC on LLC action and that there's gonna be projects that people do together, but everyone is going to want to stay, a lot leaner. It depends, if you're gonna build like massive video games, you're gonna need,it's obviously not, I'm thinking mostly in, in my little pastoral area.
[00:47:56] Alex: scale is going to remain a moat, Disney has this moat, you can only be Disney and do Disney shit, but I think it's going to be a moat for a lot fewer companies than it used to be, which is going to be really interesting also for the capital markets where the valuation was weighed.
If we can take this idea and pump 30 million into it, we can destroy the competition. Now, does that still make sense? are we gonna pump 30 million into something that then, six weeks later somebody figures out to do with $3 million? and it's exciting that scale is going to become less of e Moat.
And I do like the idea of everyone
just being their LLC and collaborating. I think that's
great. And
maybe
that's where crypto comes back with
[00:48:34] Brian: Oh, no,
[00:48:34] Troy: that's.
[00:48:35] Alex: right? Troy?
[00:48:35] Brian: no. Too soon. Too soon. Troy's busy scrubbing everything he ever said about crypto off the internet. should we move on? Oh, oh wait. I had another promotion to do, but this is like unsponsored. you guys are invited too, so. On June 13th, Troy, you definitely know Joe Marsi, former president of Fox.
Ad Revenue.
[00:48:55] Troy: I don't think
it's
Marchesi.
[00:48:57] Brian: Marquese?
I don't know. I go back and forth with it. I don't, I try not to do authentic pronunciations unless I
know.
[00:49:03] Alex: you, you try not to.
That was, it's on
[00:49:05] Brian: No, because like you, if you say like the European pronunciation, then you can come off
[00:49:09] Troy: like,
[00:49:10] Brian: pretentious.
[00:49:11] Troy: even in Europe,
[00:49:12] Brian: Alex, cuz you're European. But for us, non-Europeans, it
can be pretentious. I see it in my, coffee shop where it costs like $7 to get a cup of coffee. Like I have a pucka lots, like just get a C Cook or son
[00:49:22] Alex: You know what? I feel like a jerk when I do that because I speak French.
for me, switching to
the French accent, Even though
I can,
makes me feel like such an asshole, like is what I'm saying. Like, yeah. And I would like,one of these cinnamon
[00:49:34] Troy: like, uh, you know,
[00:49:35] Alex: and like he don't do that
jerk.
[00:49:38] Troy: I do. Yeah. You know what? I noticed there's some cute sort of Canadians. I know you don't bring up that much Alex, but, or Brian, but a guy last night at dinner said, yeah, you should just go search that up.
[00:49:49] Alex: that mean?
[00:49:50] Brian: It's it's just like upper Midwest stuff.
Oh, wait, so, oh, I, I didn't get, I didn't get cross my promotion. So we're doing this and you guys, I, I'd love for you to come. It's on June 13th, we're doing this little salon at Joe's Place, and it's about AI and humans it's a human conversation about AI and media.
and I'm gonna have a conversation with Joe and Sarah Fisher from Axios and Peter Kafka from Vox. So anyone wants to come, send me an email, brian rebooting.com. There's no, Yeah, you can totally come. It's June 13th. It's gonna be at 5:00 PM
the soho
[00:50:20] Alex: I'll be in the south of France,
[00:50:22] Brian: oh oh me mailed. okay. Should we move on to good product?
[00:50:26] Alex: Yeah.
[00:50:26] Brian: what do you have for us? A peach.
[00:50:28] Good product
[00:50:28] Troy:
I got a few things here. One was just a thing that made me laugh. was a guy, this was in, newsletter, today in tabs. there was a guy who had a, tattoo on his thigh and I'm not sure why he got it. he had gone to Reddit to ask people what he should put over top of it and the tattoo red shrimps, his bugs
[00:50:53] Brian: What does that
[00:50:54] Troy: shrimps is bugs, which I thought was really funny. I don't know. You tell me. and then the whole kind of, there was a new subreddit created around search called Search his Bugs. they started designing him new tattoos that didn't, cover
[00:51:07] Alex: shrimp says bugs?
[00:51:08] Brian: they're kind of gross.
[00:51:09] Alex: I have a different take. I, I
[00:51:11] Troy: sort of the cockroach of the sea.
[00:51:13] Alex: as bugs and eating bugs should be fine.
[00:51:15] Brian: Oh God, this is so West Coast.
[00:51:17] Alex: What do you mean west
coast, man?
[00:51:18] Brian: Donald Trump's gonna get reelected I
guarantee
[00:51:21] Alex: Christ. Because people are
[00:51:22] Brian: about how progressives and woke, whatever. Want everyone
to eat bugs.
[00:51:27] Alex: thin skinned,
[00:51:28] Troy: Brian, if nothing else,
[00:51:29] Brian: I wanna do the Andy Rooney at the end. You get your good product. I want to do my, did you ever notice?
[00:51:37] Troy: Well, the other one I, I shared too with you. One is about the, disappearance of currency and the other is about a simple currency driven mechanism to incent the right behavior. I saw both of these in Canada. A very civilized country. one was at the Tim Horton's. they had a little thing next to the cast register that you could tap your phone on to give two bucks to the charity.
So it was a little, whatever that is, rf i d or whatever enabled, charity box. I thought that was a terrific idea cuz as a result of, having payment on your phone and all that, I don't carry cash as much as I should And I can't therefore give cash to street musicians or people looking for money or whatever.
And I like to, sometimes even tips is a problem. So every person that's parked your car or doing valet or looking for some cash on the street should have a little thing that you can tap your phone on and just give them a couple of bucks. And so I think it's a very important innovation is that as the world's gone cashless, we've left all the people rely on
cash high
[00:52:43] Brian: Yeah, that's true. I was doing, my podcast or my newsletter this morning at Variety Coffee on Beakman in case anyone ever wants to meet up. That's where I do my, my newsletter writing. And the guy came in and I had my AirPods in and he tapped my shoulder to ask me for money. was like, that's new.
that didn't exist in New York. but I didn't have any cash, so, and I was writing my newsletter, so I was a little busy.
[00:53:04] Troy: Great. Do you want to Do any more promotions
for your
[00:53:06] Alex: cash is your
good product.
[00:53:08] Troy: I, I have one other one. So I noticed that like on the, shopping carts in the Shelter Island, IGA parking lot are all over the place. that's the only grocery store I ever go to. But at the Loblaws where my mother lives, all of the shopping carts are in perfect order.
I was like, why? And I looked at it and there was a little thing on it where you put a loony in, everybody knows what a loony is. That's a do a dollar in Canada and you take the cart when you put a loony in and you only get your loony back when you put it back next to the cart in front of it and connect them, which
I may do.
They do.
that in the us I
[00:53:43] Brian: Oh my God. literally, I lived in Belgium in 1993 and they did that with Belgian Franks, and that was how long ago it was.
[00:53:50] Troy: Yeah. So it's been around. I'm not saying it's a
new innovation,
[00:53:53] Brian: I like Troy gets out in the world and is charmed by the eccentricities of Tim Horton's.
[00:53:59] Troy: well anyway,
[00:54:02] Alex: He's out with the people.
[00:54:03] Brian: You're like, you're like
George w or George. The original George Bush remember that with the grocery scanner? He was like, oh my
God.
[00:54:10] Troy: just to recap, we have one. Shrimps his bugs. Number two, tap to donate. And number three, shopping cart, coin incentives. That's
[00:54:19] Brian: Yeah. I would add number four.the new attention economy at the curve Cafe in can, but.
[00:54:25] Alex: I I was hoping one of you would bring up the fact that chat, G P T finally has a mobile app. Out on the app store. It's, it's pretty good and it definitely puts them into, a consumer product now.
[00:54:36] Troy: you notice that you can turn
on vibration, so when it's responding,
it feels
[00:54:40] Alex: Well that is actually, that is my favorite, favorite feature is that as it's typing on, it does little vibrations so
that it gives this haptic response and makes you feel like is thinking and
happening.
[00:54:51] Troy: you know, related to that, there's a quote from that book that you, talked about, Brian. Earlier that said, what's the book called again?
[00:54:58] Brian: God. Human
animal machine.
[00:55:01] Troy: It is Impossible to pet an object and address it verbally without coming to regard it
in some sense as sentient.
[00:55:08] Brian: Yeah. the book starts with this woman, she got ibo, which is a $3,000 robot dog. And she found that she became very attached to the robot dog. my question for you guys was, would you turn off? Cuz she was a little conflicted. She used to turn off the dog when she was leaving and then she was like, this is, this is cruel to do.
because how can I turn the dog off when I'm, when I'm not there? Cuz it has its own life
[00:55:33] Alex: Well, actually.
I wish we could turn real dogs off when we leave because for all I'm hearing about it is that dogs are incredibly depressed because they don't have a sense of how long you're gone. So you might as be as well be gone six months when you're out
of the house.
[00:55:47] Troy: Hey. Yeah.
[00:55:47] Alex: always so happy
to see you.
They
have no sense of
[00:55:49] Troy: Nah,
[00:55:50] Alex: if I could
[00:55:51] Troy: Dogs is,
[00:55:52] Alex: a button on
my dog to
shut them down
[00:55:54] Troy: is
bugs,
[00:55:55] Alex: out.
[00:55:55] Brian: yeah, that's true. this is an entirely different podcast, but the book really does delve into how, AI and, and transhumanism and all this stuff is going to force us to really interrogate our arbitrary beliefs and what consciousness is, and intelligence and how superior we truly are to
other creatures.
[00:56:13] Troy: We're gonna stop
eating.
[00:56:14] Brian: to be all serious.
[00:56:15] Troy: vegetarians.
[00:56:16] Brian: Oh, it's
it's, inevitable. I don't think you can really fully look into this and not, come to the
conclusion that you
[00:56:22] Troy: except that. Then the logical next step is that we're, you know, plants have feelings too,
Or
[00:56:27] Brian: I mean, for sure. My mother-in-law talks to plants and, knows that they have personalities and whatnot. So I just think it's fine. that we ignore this, but I think we're not going to be able to ignore it any longer because we've conveniently put ourselves up to be far more superior than we truly are to other creatures
[00:56:42] Troy: Hey,
[00:56:42] Alex: Some people are saying, some people are saying, yeah, that the advent of, artificial intelligence is making us rethink our place as an intelligent
lifeform on this
planet.
so
that's why eat bugs, man.
[00:56:52] Troy: people is p. P is bugs?
[00:56:55] Outro
[00:56:56] Brian: All right on that,
this is
a good episode.
to the Curve Cafe.
[00:56:59] Troy: Number one.
[00:56:59] Alex: Number one,
uh,
[00:57:01] Brian: This is gonna, my monetization strategy is just everyday
sneak in.
[00:57:05] Alex: listening out there, I'm not that anti advertising, especially if you decide to add a comment, on iTunes. please rate and comment. It really helps us with the algorithms. I wish it was only based on the quality of this podcast, but it really matters.
[00:57:19] Brian: Okay.
[00:57:19] Alex: them out.
[00:57:20] Brian: Oh
yeah. I love that.
[00:57:21] Alex: one No bad ones. Just good ones.
[00:57:23] Brian: Now I'll read bad ones. I don't
mind negative
[00:57:25] Alex: All right. Wow.


PVA S1E38
PVA S1E38
[00:00:00] Cold Open
[00:00:00] Troy: You know what I hate more than advertising Alex. I hate when people promote things and pretend it's not advertising.
[00:00:06] Alex: oof, that's bad. Yeah.
[00:00:08] Brian: Well, I think we're seeing a lot of backlash to that with the influencers,
[00:00:11] Troy: mm-hmm.
We're
with you on this podcast.
[00:00:13] Brian: no, no, that's tasteful. that's
that's
[00:00:15] Troy: Yeah.
[00:00:16] Brian: integration. Troy. Very different.
[00:00:20] Troy: What
[00:00:20] Alex: Yeah.
[00:00:21] Troy: what time is the event on, on the
[00:00:23] Brian: it's 12 to three. Monday, Tuesday,
[00:00:26] Alex: What, is there a website we can go to? Brian, I'm deeply interested in it. Genuinely,
[00:00:31] Brian: Yeah. Well, I'll put it in the show notes.
[00:00:33] Troy: is there gonna be snacks and things
[00:00:34] Brian: yeah, they're canape and refreshments and we're having a cocktail party on Monday from three to five. You're, you're both invited.
[00:00:42] Troy: Okay. Okay. You did that last week. We everybody
[00:00:45] Brian: Oh,
[00:00:45] Troy: from
you?
[00:00:46] Brian: the cocktail party? I thought I just mentioned the, cocktail party I'm doing with Meredith on, Tuesday afternoon. No, it's Thursday. Shit. I got that confused with the media leaders dinner that I'm doing on
Tuesday
[00:00:59] Alex: I'm gonna be outside. Can
[00:01:01] Brian: Protesting. You should, you know, there's like the green piece. People come They hired meme of the, this is fine in the burning house? Yeah. that dog was around,
[00:01:11] Alex: I can,
[00:01:12] Brian: he was just walking around sweating. I, I don't know who was in that
[00:01:15] Alex: I'm sure there was a lot of marketers trying to, kind of strike a IP deal with that dog to sell more shit.
[00:01:20] Brian: Yeah. Greenpeace like had a ship off the coast. I don't know what they were threatening to
[00:01:24] Alex: Well, they also see that advertising is going to destroy the planet.
[00:01:28] Troy: No, the ship was sponsored by Nestle, I think.
[00:01:31] Brian: Oh, was it
[00:01:33] Welcome
[00:01:33] Alex:
[00:01:55] Brian: Welcome to People Versus Algorithms, a podcast about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Morrisy and I run the Rebooting a newsletter podcast, and increasingly live events company focused on building sustainable media businesses. And each week I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive investor, Troy Young.
And Alex Schleifer, former head of Design at Airbnb. And CEO of Universal Entities, longtime publicist, ad Exec, Rashad Tobacco Wall has a go-to line about ad agencies that I've admittedly stolen from time to time. As Rashad says, they say we're like dinosaurs, but we're really like cockroaches. Everyone hates us.
Nobody likes to see us, but cockroaches have outlived everyone we scurry out of corners. I believe the same sentiment applies to advertising in general. Over my 20 years covering this business, I have seen several supposed existential threats to advertising. was a time when TiVo was going to destroy TV ads.
Don't forget about how cord cutting was gonna do the same. No wait. Netflix was making it so you could easily avoid ads altogether. Nevermind that Netflix is selling quite a few ads these days. The i b told us that GDPR would destroy the advertising industry and along with the democracy, they're both still around, and I must confess for a glorious but short period.
A few years back, I played a small role in whipping up very faint hysteria. ad blocking was itself an existential threat. But like Rashad said, advertising scurries out of corners, it even cockroaches would have a tough time in nuclear Armageddon. This week, top scientists issued a terse 22 word statement that simply said, mitigating the risk of extinction from AI be a global priority alongside other societal scale risks, such as pandemics and nuclear war.
I'm gonna guess Extinction also covers programmatic advertising. I was struck recently, actually, just today by an interview S four, published with the c e O of Perplexity ai Reid a Gotti asked this gentleman, do you see advertising being a part of search in the future? And the answer was people should just put more effort into having well-documented information about them on the internet, and an L L M can parse it on the fly.
I feel like this might make the world better in some sense. Why do you need to advertise if an L L M can just go read about you and what you're saying, well, that sounds great, but there's a problem here. Digital advertising is a 200 billion market in the US alone. There are a lot of jobs and there are a lot of companies that depend on advertising as we discuss.
In this show, advertising itself is a cog within the capitalist system. Are we going to take down all of that and with it remake our societies? I'm interested to see how this pans out. So this week, Troy, Alex, and I returned to the topic. Of the future of advertising be said as it is by regular challenges of economic turbulence.
Battling tech platforms or the stranglehold on the industry, nettles some regulations and Byzantine supply chains that transfer much of the value of transactions to data brokers and other middlemen. But now it's also facing the many challenges of ai. With publishers adopting a fight or flight mode and new tools coming on the market like the ARC browser that can easily eliminate ads and the benevolent dictator of the ads based open web.
And that's Google under the most pressure that it's ever been possibly in its existence. So a quick reminder before we get to the conversation to send me your feedback. My email is brian@therebooting.com. I always share it with Troy and Alex and, uh, really, glad whenever I get, notes about the podcast, we're always trying to improve it and we wanna see where it goes.
Also, please leave us a rating and review on Apple or Spotify or wherever you get your podcast, and they allow you to leave a rating or review. We wanna keep growing this podcast, and my own goal is to eventually force Alex into relenting to a lucrative and tasteful sponsorship deal. Now on to the episode.
[00:05:36] Welcome end
[00:05:37] Brian: All right, let's get into it. Should
[00:05:39] Alex: Yeah. No, we should probably do it. That's what we do.
[00:05:41] Brian: Yeah. All right. So we gotta start off with ai. I gotta laugh cuz I get a little
[00:05:46] Troy: Well, cuz it's was a day of, AI reckoning, right? Everybody came out saying that it's dangerous today.
[00:05:52] Brian: not,when we talked about this in, the text thing, I always go back to the Gartner hype cycle and I still feel like we're on the upswing, with the. Getting towards the peak of inflated expectations and there are signs of cooling. Sure. But it'll inevitably lead to the down slope to the trough of disillusionment before the upswing of the slope of enlightenment.
[00:06:11] Alex: you, can you just run people through it?
[00:06:13] Brian: it's a chart. It goes up towards the peak of inflated expectations. I think we're still going up and then we start to go down to the trough of disillusionment. Cause like, this stuff sucks and then we go up with the slope enlightenment and you're like, no, it's actually really cool.
And then it just becomes the plateau productivity where it just becomes part of our lives. or it wipes us all out. We'll see. but I think this is all about inflated expectations, I mean, you, you come out and it's like, this is the biggest thing since fire. I mean, can you get any higher of expectations?
All right, so Troy, are we at the beginning of the down slope to the trough of disillusionment with ai? Because, I was playing around with Bard this weekend and I think I probably had the experience of a lot of people where I was like, eh, is kind of cool, but this also kind of sucks cuz I can't trust any of the answers cuz I do like the obvious searches and I get garbage.
Now is not the time to mute.
[00:07:05] Alex: Oh, he hasn't. He hasn't muted.
[00:07:07] Troy: How are we doing? Can you hear me?
[00:07:08] Alex: Yeah.
[00:07:09] Troy: I think your gardener chart's kind of right. the human mind can only absorb so much. Kind of prognostication and euphoria and like all the junk that we've been kind of overwhelmed with. Plus summer's coming and we don't have to worry about I AI all summer.
you know, our, our enthusiasm will be tempered slightly. There's only so much you can take at one time. But also,the letter came out today, it's Tuesday, and 350 AI leaders signed a notes on in the New York Times as of an
hour
[00:07:38] Brian: words. 22 words.
[00:07:39] Troy: What, that's along the note. Yeah. I think though, we gotta bring it back. it's an interesting conversation, I think, to bring it back to media, because I do think that the Jim Vander Ray wrote the note Roughly that, AI's gonna chase all the crap out of the media system.
That was a function of,people stuffing Google full of, crappy commoditized content. And that, direct brands, strong brands, authoritative brands, direct relationships will all benefit as a result. And in some ways, media returns to a state of, higher quality. So he was in that kind of eight point Axio style note that he wrote, which was smart, I think was optimistic.
On the other side, we have maybe you wouldn't argue it's productive, I think usually is futile. the kind of blustery Robert Thompson from News Corp, who, admirably, challenged Google in the last round of,Media castration from the PAP platforms, came out saying, they need to pay us for their content.
And these are super snippets. This is our ip, and we're gonna kind of fight to the death to preserve it. I think that's probably time would say that it's, or history would suggest that it's productive, but there's never gonna be a, kind of central clearinghouse of media compensation from the, AI owners.
That's not gonna happen, so, I'm not optimistic about that. I think if you're, a media owner or media brand, you know that more and more, it's really just kinda like the evolution of search. more and more of what we searched is gonna get surfaced. In a response, and media's gonna have to live with that reality period.
[00:09:18] Brian: Yeah, had written a, few weeks ago about this just after Barry Diller at the semi four event was really coming out Throwing the gloves down, be like, let's go, let's all get together and, and March on Washington. like you said, most of this, like in the long run is futile. But at the end of the day, I think News Corp has proven to be fairly adept at shaking down tech companies for payments.
I think that they already have a playbook for doing that. They already know what to do and they're doing it. I don't think it's like mutually exclusive though, right.
[00:09:49] Alex: I think while all this is happening, so you have the platforms, the Googles and Facebooks of the world, and then you have the media companies and there's going to be a lot of. dealing and trading going on to make sure that those two business models somehow align, kind of the advertising and the search models.
they're gonna have to collaborate at some form because Google contrast remove all the kind of friction out of the internet and lose all those advertising surfaces. And media doesn't want all their stuff to get sucked into the learning models. And, and we will start fighting back, but I think whatever happens, there's also consumer products that are gonna come out that are going to completely disrupt all of that stuff.
I've been using that artifact app more and more actually. And a big part of it is because they have a summarized button it used to be hidden under a little sub menu and now it's right at the top. it's a little icon at the top. it's a silly little feature.
It turns it into three bullet points. But whatever media companies and Google does, I don't think they'll be able to fight the fact that you'll be able to create incredible ad blockers, incredible things that will reshape the internet. the browser that I use, the arc browser has this kind of boost feature, right?
You, you looked at it, Brian, that allows you to kind of reshape, remove stuff from the internet. People have already done things like, it removes blue checks in Twitter and it does stuff like that. information will be so re shapeable, that I really don't know how else. you're going to make money except for subscription, except from locking this stuff behind a paywall.
because right now advertising is a pretty dumb way of creating a tax or, generating revenue that will be very easy for these AI tools to just wipe off anything you put On any open platform, and this could happen at the screen level, right? It doesn't even have to reshape html. The thing could just look at your screen and reshape what you see.
So it doesn't matter. Could be video playing, technically, you can't tell me that you have a one button deep fake that can turn you into Duane the Rock Johnson, but you're not going to make something that's able to remove all the ads and all the bullshit you don't want to see intelligently.
so media and the platforms are gonna have that fight, but meanwhile there's gonna be a lot of nice little upstarts, kind of trying to just position themselves into removing all the friction from users. And I think that's going to make paid subscriptions the only way to make money.
[00:12:02] Brian: Yeah, it's funny cuz it reminds me of when the very brief ad blocker mania, of a few years back and we would always have these stories where I would call them like, let's do two too many rather than two too few. And ad blocking was one of them. Cause it had like fear and it had all sorts of things and people were for a little brief period of time, people were scared of this.
They were talking it up. it never ended up becoming a existential threat. To publishers, it became like a manageable condition. And of course, the ad blockers themselves ended up getting into the advertising business. And maybe these AI companies will do the same. but tell me, talk to me a little bit more about how this can become like, ad blocking to, back and
better than ever.
[00:12:41] Troy: I, think that's smart. before I, comment on that, I was at Home Depot. In Vancouver, and I noticed that there was a Samsung washer and dryer pair and smack dab in the middle of the machine was a button, like the big button, a huge button that said AI wash. And on the dryer it said AI dry. I think that's what Alex is talking about, which is AI get my media the way I want it. And so if it is the ultimate kind of context, smasher, or, flattener, if you want to get your media, particularly text media, but Alex was suggesting kind of any type of media,reformatted, reshaped, repackaged, AI is, an ultimate toolkit.
[00:13:24] Alex: it might happen on device. look at the technologies we have today, so you have things that can,Get a lot of context from text and, create a really quick summary of it. you have things that understand the structure of HTML and can, dynamically remove components out of it.
you have real-time video, manipulation that allows you, to change, the way somebody's face looks. So you kind of, sort of extrapolate that and you build a tool that says, Hey, look at what I see on my screen and reframe it. So let me give you a very simple example. I can't imagine we're not, minutes away from a podcast app that skips all the ads intelligently. that just essentially, learns where the ads are and skips forward for you. Now the question is, At some point that starts feeling a little bit like piracy, it's a little bit like a Napster issue where you have these tools coming out that can actually maybe run on your device, that can skip, ads, that can pull out all the content, from a website and give you a digest.
and totally remove that control from the publishers. unless it's behind some sort of paywall. So
[00:14:26] Brian: Yeah, but unless it's centralized and it's a very easy to use app and that requires like funding and stuff like this, nobody's gonna build their own tools. that's
just not a mass activity. Maybe in
California, but
not,
[00:14:38] Alex: no, that's crazy. Talk a hundred
[00:14:39] Brian: people are not gonna build their own, are you kidding
[00:14:42] Alex: What do you mean build your own? It's gonna be a
[00:14:44] Brian: Why do you think defaults are? So if someone centralized entity does that, they'll get sued out of existence.
[00:14:51] Alex: Why? Because they're for what?
[00:14:53] Brian: They always do. the lawyers are gonna win. I don't know what else to say. We've seen this time
[00:14:58] Alex: Are ad blocker apps out of business. Is it illegal to make an ad blocker
[00:15:02] Brian: no, the ad blockers are now selling ads.
[00:15:05] Alex: right, to make more
[00:15:06] Troy: Well, the ad blockers are letting select ads through, based on, their own made up ad standards. Yes.
[00:15:12] Brian: exactly.
Which happened to conform to the people who pay
[00:15:16] Alex: that's
fine. That's not suing. I mean, if somebody released a $10 app on the app store that did that, a VPN say or something like that, or a browser, is somebody gonna sue Arc? Because you can modify a website and remove the ads using that
[00:15:30] Brian: Yes, 100%
commercialize that they will get sued. They will, do you remember Gator, Troy, do you remember Gator? That was this early, like internet media of this toolbar that got installed on everyone and they ended up changing people's websites. The New York Times sued them and they won.
because it's established law that you cannot do that. so maybe they operate in the say shells or whatever, but if someone wants to build. There's just too much entrenched interest. We watch succession. We know how this goes. Go regulatory.
[00:16:06] Alex: I don't know. I haven't seen that many ad blockers get shut down. I just think that right now, publishers have had a way to fight ad blockers and they're still kind of a,
[00:16:13] Troy: You guys, IO just raised like. 50 million or something. iOS, the biggest ad blocking company. they've challenged rulings in the German courts. they're legal extortionists the number one use case for ad blocking is to remove ads from YouTube.
but,since YouTube's introduced a paid tier that removes all the ads and stuff, I think it's become less vital. But it exists as a totally, and by the way, they're also, there's deals happening where they become embedded at the platform level with Samsung as, device level ad blocking.
I mean, their business is doing fine. but I think it's a bigger point and it's, it certainly is speculative, but Alex's point is that, AI ultimately is a technology that gives more and more control to the media consumer, and that it will get easier and easier to reshape the media the way you want it.
And all it will do is if, yeah, some of it gets caught up in cord or if, it's not for my mom, but it's for, enthusiasts that somehow that gets reshaped into an app or something and gets absorbed into the system that it's negative pressure on systematic delivery of advertising, in the ecosystem.
So I can't disagree with that point.
[00:17:25] Brian: Yeah, but it's gonna be negative pressure across all sorts of fronts. You talk about subscriptions, These models are, are gonna be scooping up stuff behind paywalls,
like, I don't
[00:17:34] Alex: just more defensible. I think that's just more defensible. I'm not saying they won't. Right. I think everything's possible right now. right now there's so much that's gated behind the fact that things are just a little too complicated. It's kind of complicated to add an AdBlocker.
It's kind of complicated to go too bit torrent and download something. some of these things are just more friction than opening Netflix. A lot of that friction is just going to be removed. You know, I remember when software piracy, the thing you needed to do to kind of solve software piracy a little bit was to have, a manual with like a red film you would put in front of it and they would show you a code and they would make it so it was hard to photocopy them.
it had some sort of a red pattern on top of it. And then when you started the video game, they would ask you for a code that was on that page of the manual and that seemed to be enough for them. and I think in the world of ai, You won't be able to protect your content or monetize it by just popping an ad on it or, simply making sure that it's harder to kind of pirate it.
I think there's going to have to be a lot more done and text content is going to be the least, protected through this. It's going to be so hard to do. So I didn't want to completely change the topic, but I think we're gonna look at platform versus media companies and meanwhile there's going to be all these tools coming up are going to completely disrupt that.
[00:18:47] Brian: One thing that's going to be interesting is to see like, will Apple say block a podcasting app that skips all the ads? is that the gatekeeping that's gonna need to happen At some point? because then app stores then becoming even more powerful as people mo move more of their stuff off the web. Yeah, And Apple also has a vested interest in advertising. Now, I mean, they're gonna be a big presence in Cannes. They've got a big advertising business now. I mean, maybe they did it under the guise of privacy, whatever. but they're selling a lot of ads. In Apple, and Tim Cook has done a tremendous job at growing, services, revenue and ad revenues next.
I mean, they've seen what Amazon has done in the ad business, I'm sure, it's good. I think for publishers that Apple has a vested interest in advertising. I think that's a good thing. Just like Google having a vested interest in both the open web and advertising is a good thing for most publishers.
[00:19:38] Alex: isn't that that type of advertising though, that Apple does the, the main way I kind of experience it is when I search for Airbnb and Expedia pops up at the top and I find that type of advertising. Really anti-consumer. You know the fact that like you have to buy your own goddamn
[00:19:53] Troy: Jesus, I thought, that was the most friendly kind of advertising. Alex.
[00:19:57] Alex: Really, you're looking for something specific and it shows you the competition as a first slot.
[00:20:02] Troy: Yeah. Someone's providing a service to you, my friend.
[00:20:04] Alex: What's that
[00:20:05] Troy: they have the right to do,
[00:20:06] Brian: It's like going
down the highway and you're going to the Hardee's, but you see a, a sign for
Burger King.
[00:20:13] Troy: you've got 10 million apps in the app store. The only mechanism for, attention, is to have some kind of paid mechanism. It's the only way that if you're an app owner, that you can get any type of systematic attention to something you've created.
It was different when there was a list
[00:20:29] Alex: Oh, it's also a perfect way for somebody with capital to hijack something you may have done that is popular. The thing I'm
[00:20:35] Troy: Oh, yeah. That, oh, that thing. Capitalism.
[00:20:39] Alex: Well, the, the, the thing that I'm talking about is imagine if that happened in maps. Hey, get me directions to a Burger King. you Sure you're not, you don't want to go to a kfc?
is that the world we're gonna live in? Hey, please download the Airbnb app. You sure you don't want to download V R B O? That type of stuff is
[00:20:54] Brian: That's what, that is one form of advertising, but Apple's advertising business is, first of all it's bigger, but it's also gonna be far broader. They're building a demand side platform at Apple. and they're gonna bring ads to Apple TV for sure. they're gonna do maps.
Yes. I opened up Google Maps and they have Starbucks, an iconic Seattle Brew BR coffee house. I think that Starbucks paid for that. I don't think that anyone would describe Starbucks as iconic.
[00:21:20] Troy: Right. Or I mean, any distribution that you're looking to tilt in your direction is gonna be paid. A lot of people aren't just searching for Airbnb. They may be looking for vacation rentals and the Airbnb would, compete with Expedia and V R B O or whatever. You might search top mobile phone games or something like that and it'll, give you Subway, surfer and a bunch of other games.
I think that's a totally legit way of presenting options to a consumer.
[00:21:46] Brian: And they're also getting deeper into,major League soccer. I think Apple's gonna be very invested in the advertising industry. They're gonna
try to reshape it.
[00:21:57] Troy: Totally. And they're gonna try to challenge a lot of the issues that are on, cable like frequency and commercial length and opt-in and all the things that, innovative leader there is definitely YouTube. listen on YouTube.
If you don't want ads, you can pay 15 bucks and you don't get ads on YouTube if the ad is, 40 seconds. Or you can, you, the ad can be over long, you however long you want it to be. but you can skip it after five seconds. So it's a fairly civilized approach to video advertising the directory stuff that you're, you're not happy about.
Alex is as old as a print directory, right? You could buy a bigger ad on the page, in the yellow pages, it seems totally fair to me.
[00:22:36] Brian: Yeah, and I think they're also going to change, obviously, with the approach to the rampant. Some would say wanton collection of data in digital advertising. I think one thing is very clear is there's a lot of different forms of advertising, but Apple has no time or very little time for how advertising has been done by a lot of the social media platforms.
so that'll change and that's good. Maybe.
[00:22:59] Troy: Yeah. You know what's interesting about the ad stuff to me is, so it used to be that if you were, say a DTC company, a direct to consumer seller, and highly dependent obviously on buying advertising from Google and Facebook, you would try to optimize. You would have people that were extremely good at optimizing your buying, and you would also try to optimize creative.
Increasingly, the media optimization is done. say by Google across all their advertising channels and it's all automated we're not far off from the creative side of it being much, much more optimized. Certainly the text and increasingly the images and then next the video. So in that scenario, what's interesting is I think that platforms have even more opportunity for margin expansion and they have the power cuz the distribution position is the last thing that is optimizable and it's the thing that platforms have and they control.
AI will drive all of the other dimensions of your buy and advertising will become just like buying distribution. That's it.
[00:24:03] Brian: Yeah, I don't know if you saw this, I put this in the, chat. but Spotify, at least according to Bill Simmons, is experimenting with AI podcast ads. They're gonna take his or the host voice and scale it, I guess, I was asking Alex the other week about how to, scale myself.
So I guess this is like one. Possible use. I mean, cuz one of the things that I've always found sort of charming about podcast advertising is the host read because I think it confers, I don't know, a level of, I hate the word intimacy, but familiarity that, you don't get with the automated programmatic ad system.
I think this is an interesting way to be able to, I don't know if you can scale the sort of human touch.
[00:24:43] Alex: I don't know if it'll be discernible. Honestly, I'm super worried about advertising mixed with AI because, advertising. Design,
[00:24:52] Brian: We know your priors,
[00:24:53] Alex: no. no. It's not like interface design is already, it's a type of manipulation, right? You get people to do what you want them to do within a specific context. I think once you have advertising with ai, especially kind of engagement advertising that we do, it's already hard to discern advertising from the content.
I think on Google, it's actually hard for many people to see like what's an ad and what's not. They're blurring the lines. And with ai, I think those lines are gonna get blurred even more. And on top of that, the computer's going to be so much better at, manipulating you into feeling like, something's not enough and you need to buy something new.
And I think it's just going to be, a fucking disaster, guys.
[00:25:32] Brian: did you see that Nvidia did a deal with wpp, the world's largest advertising agency, I might add, in order to bring AI into ads? Apparently this is what they say. The platform will enable WPPs creative teams to integrate content from places like Adobe and Getty with generative AI to produce advertising campaigns, quote, more efficiently and at scale.
Oh, that's very enticing. According to wpp, this will enable companies to make large volumes of advertising content
more tailored and immersive.
[00:26:04] Alex: You know what Taylor it means, it goes like, it'll know your anxieties and your deep insecurities and make sure that it,makes that person wearing the dress look a little bit like your mother. And it is just like going to be this type of crazy shit that we have, we already see like, advertising on Facebook, people saying well, I, just told people I, missed my period and now they're advertising baby clothes,
And that feels intrusive. Fuck, we have no idea. And if there's money, people are gonna do it. And this stuff is, I, I don't know. I think, I think advert.
[00:26:33] Brian: like that you're not worried about humanity being erased. You're like, ah, whatever.
But then like the idea of like advertising being
slightly more
[00:26:41] Alex: the, the algorithm is how we've, we've started it fucking with humanity, Social networks, the mental health crisis that we have hasn't been helped by, our addiction to attention and making, it's like, oh, we have all this attention and now we can monetize it.
How can we monetize it by making people feel like nothing's ever enough? All right, okay, how do we make that, okay, well let's make sure that the algorithm feeds them that shit. And so it's, and every five times we show them something that makes them feel bad, we sell them shorts or a fucking weed gummy or like a vape thing or whatever.
Just because, now they're stressed out. we're continuing with that. I'm not scared that the AI is gonna wake up and say, humans bad and make a bio weapon that kills everyone. I think it's just gonna make us crazy. It's just gonna make us crazier than we are.
And we've been
[00:27:26] Troy: Wow. Can you, can you find your way elegantly back
[00:27:30] Brian: I am
[00:27:30] Troy: baby
[00:27:30] Brian: for this.
[00:27:31] Troy: metaphor.
[00:27:32] Alex: the baby seal metaphor. I mean, this is really like oil, right? Like we found that attention was this thing that we could generate so much money from that we kept everybody's So horny for getting all of our attention. They want to put glasses in front of our eyes so that then they can change our reality and make us buy more shit.
Because that's the only way we figured out how to make money is not by making something that you sell, but it's by just making more shit that ends up in a landfill and then ads in front of our eyeballs every time we share a baby picture. It's depressing. And I think that's how AI destroys us.
And I think the, media platform and the advertising, industrial complex is going to make that happen, guys. where it's gonna go.
[00:28:13] Brian: I think in some ways it can't help itself,
[00:28:15] Alex: No, that's the
[00:28:16] Brian: it's a machine and the machine does,
[00:28:18] Alex: Everybody's
[00:28:19] Brian: did, what's his name Kendall said, Ken said this. He's like, I'm a cog made for a machine. It's like advertising is a cog made for Mach, the machine of capitalism and it is just going to slot in and it's just gonna
go.
So I'm excited for it. I think there's gonna be new monetization.
[00:28:32] Alex: Fuck.
I
mean, you know, the more I think about it, theor, it's like, I wanna make a, a podcast about advertising that never accepts advertising. I know, Brian, that
[00:28:41] Brian: Alex. No,
we're cutting that
Vanya.
[00:28:43] Alex: I, I cannot, you gotta, this is
[00:28:47] Brian: Should we talk about the Curve Cafe briefly? Because it's really, it's, it's honestly, the program is, and we're gonna discuss AI and creativity. Myra Nussbaum from, Havas, is gonna come and we're gonna talk about AI and creativity, various other people. It's gonna be amazing. But seriously, do check it
[00:29:05] Alex: Yeah.
[00:29:06] Troy: That wasn't drop. The, my quality rant there, Alex. and the thing is, is that I think it will appeal to people that are even employed in the industry because many of them secretly realize that they are,eating their own. But,at pays the bills for now.
[00:29:20] Brian: Yeah.
[00:29:20] Alex: Yeah.
[00:29:20] Troy: like Brian. Brian. Brian is right with you spiritually, brother Brian is there, but Brian has to
[00:29:25] Brian: I'm there. I live in the
real world though. I just, I gotta
make a living.
[00:29:30] Alex: I don't know, maybe there's a better way of doing advertising. the kind of very targeted engagement stuff feels so attractive and it's so profitable that
everything's going to that.
[00:29:40] Cut cold open
[00:29:40] Troy: we try to be optimistic, I think,
and we try to be service oriented. you have a listener, a fan in San Francisco named Brian Monahan, who works at,and he sent me a note saying that he spit up his coffee when you, use the baby seal oil tanker analogy.
he spent his life in advertising, Alex, and he's also an idealist. He lives in, in Marin. I'm wondering how we help a guy like that out, who wants to really, he realizes that companies need to market themselves, but wants to be a voice of positive change.
What advice would you give to Brian, Alex?
[00:30:12] Alex: Um, well, thanks for listening. No, I don't know. I think that the hyper optimized models of, attention and engagement advertising, just going to become more powerful and more performance. So they're going to become very attractive. but I also think that
you can make irreparable damage when you put out an algorithms to say, Hey, optimize around selling something, because we know. That people buy stuff to, oftentimes fill a hole that they might have in their lives. And I think that as any company that's basing their business model around that maybe, invest a little bit in thinking through that and thinking how you can some guardrails around what you make or finding different ways of putting your, brands in front of consumers.
And I don't have an answer. I actually feel, or I hope, and which is not great for the advertising people, that we become less reliant on advertising and that, that, that it does become, less attractive and that we have to end up making more stuff that's potentially experiential
or in-store or whatever that is and stop being so.
[00:31:17] Brian: That's just a different form.
[00:31:19] Alex: but that's an
okay form.
[00:31:20] Brian: Okay, so that's
[00:31:21] Alex: But I am speaking specifically about this supercharged, highly targeted advertising that comes down our information stream straight into our fucking brains that knows us because it reads our social networks and makes us feel nothing's ever enough.
It's not
[00:31:36] Brian: Yeah. So you know that that book I'm talking about that I've been reading like God, human, animal machine, they talk about this and I think it's just a continuation of the road that we went down with the internet because once you turned people into data, you sort of lost sense of the humanity I think a lot of the reactions against the collection of data, people I talk to on the ad tech side are like, what are you talking about?
Third party cookie doesn't do anything, man, give us our cookies. And they're like, we don't know who you are that's I'm summarizing. but. What it really does is it dehumanizes people. it struck me in this book, I'm just gonna read a little, couple sentences from it.
she writes this izing of information is evident in the growing number of social media platforms that view their human users as nothing more than receptacles of data. And she cites, uh, computer scientist at Jarin Lenier, who talks about that anti-human approach to computation in which bits are presented as if they were alive, while humans are transient fragments. And I think that to me speaks to how advertising has been done in the last,15 years in some ways. And during that time it doesn't sort of, Escape my attention that the trust has gone down, for a lot of different factors. But I think that with ai it's gonna force a bit of a reckoning with how far down this path do you want to go and what does human-centered advertising look like versus collecting data and treating people like they're just pieces of data, in order to target,
[00:33:00] Alex: I don't know.
I'd love to hear what Troy has to say.
[00:33:03] Troy: Well, I'm wondering if, so, there's the sort of the notion that, AI turns us all into paperclips.
[00:33:09] Alex: Yeah,
[00:33:09] Troy: read that anecdote, right? Right. So is there a future where AI is optimized to human wellbeing? And as such, moderates,negative inputs that affect our consciousness in ways that is unhealthy and therefore, changes media for the better? Is
that a possibility that ai, ai actually could be a
[00:33:30] Brian: There's only one way this happens, Troy. I know the way, but I'll let a go
[00:33:34] Alex: I think it depends on the business model we adopt with the right business model. Yes. Social media algorithms could be optimized around making you feel more gratitude and more. Ease with yourself and understanding that what you might have right now is enough to be happy, But there's no way you can sell advertising against that because advertising sells when all these opposite things happen.
this dehumanization has been happening forever, right? We call people consumers, not people. We call people users, not people, And then we, even in advertising, people used to call them eyeballs. it's like we've consistently dehumanized things and we've found out that the best way to make people buy shit is to make them feel bad about themselves.
And literally, I was watching advertising on TV and one ad was about a guy not having enough time to spend with his family. The next ad was about not having enough time to spend by himself relaxing. And the next ad was not having enough time to spend working. So you don't work hard enough, you don't spend enough time with your family, and you don't have enough time for yourself.
So fuck you and buy our shit. And so and so, if the business model changes, yes,
[00:34:38] Brian: was not the tagline, was
[00:34:39] Alex: fuck you. And buy our shit is everyone's tagline. By the way. Everyone's tagline, if you translate as fuck you by our shit, okay, you
suck.
[00:34:47] Brian: Did they focus group that?
[00:34:50] Alex: you just re reword it. But so, Troy, a hundred percent it could happen. But the business model cannot be advertising. I don't think so.
It
[00:34:57] Brian: I think the only way it happens is one level higher and that's transhumanism. We have to merge with the ais. We do.
[00:35:04] Alex: uh, fuck yeah. or some benevolent
[00:35:07] Brian: Are you into this, Alex? I, I've been reading this stuff and I've been thinking, I'm like, is Alex into this?
[00:35:13] Alex: I am very much, a technologist, an early adopter. and I think we're already there, I mean, I use AirPods and, and all that type of stuff. I amplify my capabilities with computers all the time, keep worrying if I plug my brain in, then the ads are not just gonna come in through my Google search results.
They're also gonna just come straight in through my thoughts. That's why it's gonna happen next, oh, you feel a little anxious here, buy this pizza. You know, that's, that's why
[00:35:39] Brian: Okay, so you will not get the
implant. Basically, Troy, you'll get the implant, right?
[00:35:44] Troy: I mean, I'll try it. I'll probably just for the weekend or something,
What if it comes as a little, uh, pack with nicotine that you can put under your tongue? if it comes with nicotine, I'll, continue using it.
[00:35:55] Alex: Uh
[00:35:55] Brian: was reading a lot about this. the simulation thing and if you read too much about it and think too much about it, I think it can make you crazy. I really do think it can make you crazy because the basic idea is that our, ancestors became transhumanists. Then they merged with machines and then they created many different simulations, millions of them.
And were just living in one of the simulations, just either for a history lesson about how humans used to be or as an experiment or just for entertainment. And it was a passing reference. But it said that some of Sam Altman's associates are funding an effort to break us out of the simulation.
[00:36:32] Alex: Oh my God, that's a big narrative component to my game that scientists are trying to break us out of the simulation.
[00:36:38] Brian: really? It was freaking me
[00:36:40] Alex: yeah, I mean, the idea that there's like some sort of an ancestor or precursor simulation,spoiler alert, this is part of my video game universe stuff, so, anyone excited about that can, turn it off.
But, that we live in some sort of ancestral simulation. that if we build enough, technology that is powerful enough, it can itself breakthrough or hack into the simulation and change the fabric of reality, which is fun, fun stuff. Once again, it's not enough to be alive. And have an experience and love people around you and experience the universe, you gotta be able to hack it and break it.
And you know what? So then you can place ads straight into reality. That's the next step. Yes. You see this rock? No, it's, it's an ad for Coca-Cola. but yeah.
[00:37:27] Troy: I told you, Brian, when you made the, the suggestion this week that we focus on ads again, that it was troubling, and then Alex would get upset,
[00:37:37] Brian: Well, I, I tried a different direction and we got ripped back in here.
It's not upsetting. I, I think the end of humanity is more upsetting than the
ads.
[00:37:45] Troy: No, but you wanted to talk about
TMU ads, right? You.
[00:37:47] Brian: I do wanna talk about team ads, but I, that might have said Alex. I gave you guys an example. I mean, we're
gonna be flooded with shitty ads. So programmatic ads came to the subway,
the New York City subway.
[00:38:01] Troy: I think you should do a quick, what's going on in the ad industry corner.
[00:38:04] Brian: Yeah. What's going on in the, at, let's see, we're bringing programmatic ads to the subway. W PPP is getting in bed with Nvidia in order to scale creative. and then what else do we have? Oh, teu teu. I don't know what it is. It's Pindo Doles. yeah, it's like some kind of knockoff Amazon China and they sell incredibly cheap things and they're flooding the internet with advertising.
I don't know if you've seen these ads.
they would make the content wreck ad networks
blush.
[00:38:34] Troy: literally have a breakdown
it's everything he talks
[00:38:36] Alex: yeah. It's everything I hate. It's like fully just algorithmically programmed. Crazy ads that break your brain, that make people buy stuff that go straight to landfill.
[00:38:45] Brian: like a thousand toothbrushes for a dollar.
[00:38:48] Alex: it's just the amount of landfill that cycle is unsustainable.
it's wild.
[00:38:52] Troy: I agree with you. Yes. it's awful waste of human energy.
[00:38:56] Alex: Yeah. here's a tongue scraper just because your breath stinks and you suck. by the tongue scraper, you'll have more friends Fuck you by our shit.
[00:39:03] Brian: it's those, like those little floss plastic floss tools are everywhere these
days
[00:39:08] Troy: Yeah.
[00:39:09] Brian: Cuz the
margins are amazing,
[00:39:10] Alex: in the, in the world.
[00:39:11] Brian: but how many people are walking around the streets, flossing like that? Is that like after you eat pizza?
[00:39:16] Alex: Oh, it's just
[00:39:17] Troy: I do that sometimes. I wouldn't recommend it. People don't like it.
It's gross to walk around to go to like the corner store with a flosser in your mouth. No,
[00:39:25] Alex: Yeah. No, you don't do that.
If there's anything you learn in this episode is it don't floss while walking into a grocery store,
but
[00:39:32] Troy: episode we ever do.
[00:39:33] Brian: I think we hit all my topics except for Netflix. Hated ads until it loved them, but that was kind of shoehorned in.
[00:39:39] Alex: I mean, I think everybody hates ads until they can see how much they kind of run out of consumers and they want to expand their reach. technology makes advertising more performant. Therefore, it makes advertising worse because the ultimate advertising,
If you plot a line, the 10 star version of advertising, the, the, the perfect advertising is a thing so powerful that anybody that sees it goes out and buys the shit, It's so targeted that it's irresistible, and that is the hypothetical. Pinnacle of advertising. the same way people said like the ultimate way to, get a song is that you press a button and that song just plays
And we, we reached that really with, technology. And so what is the pinnacle of advertising is that, and we're going to keep trying to reach it. and so it's always gonna make advertising more performant better, maybe more profitable, but it's definitely going to make advertising worse for humanity.
so I, I am worried about that. and I also wonder, like that Nvidia thing was interesting, Troy, you remember, so many people that work in advertising are artists, people with an artistic soul that pay the bills, working in agencies, And it allows them to kind of keep doing what they are good at and what they love to do, and maybe fund a career in the arts on the side.
and I think when they're talking about scaling creative, what they're really saying is like downscaling creative people. And, it's gonna have a huge Impact on how many people can, keep Having a pretty good living
[00:41:03] Brian: So basically by arguing against advertising, you're arguing against artists.
[00:41:07] Alex: Correct.
[00:41:08] Brian: Fuck
[00:41:10] Alex: Yeah. Well, you know what, if they don't make any money, it's fine. They can still buy a thousand toothbrushes on, TEU and, never have to work again. So, that's fine. Everything's fine.
[00:41:20] Brian: not surprised that W PPP was the first outta the gate with this. I mean, Martin Sorrow for years was basically being like, can't we just replace the creatives with some kind of machine that spits out ads?
[00:41:33] Troy: Hey, Wade. There's, an art director playing fiddle outside of my house with a hat next to him.
[00:41:38] Alex: Yeah.
[00:41:41] Brian: honor all labor
[00:41:42] Alex: that's what's next. we're seeing it with the writer strike and we're gonna see a lot more stuff like that where are in creative fields. which was always something that I think every corporate leader wanted to cut back on, but felt nearly impossible because that was the last human thing, you really needed talent for.
but the amount of that I've heard in the industry of people being so excited about getting rid of artists, Like literally because they're capricious and difficult and too expensive and we can't wait to replace them with ai. it is kind of sad I think art, makes the world a little better.
[00:42:15] Brian: I mean, I'm like, yes and no, because nobody cried when we were like taking away the jobs of people who worked in factories and unfashionable parts of the country. But now all of a sudden, because somebody with a second house and the Hudson, who also gets to do his art on the side, is threatened by a technological change, it's all of a sudden, whoa, let's pump the brakes.
[00:42:34] Alex: not everybody, you know, everybody was happy that these jobs were going away, but I think working in a mine,
[00:42:40] Brian: well, I didn't see a lot of people, I didn't see a big discussion about it. Everyone was like, yeah, okay, let's retrain them. So let's retrain, all the artists, I guess.
[00:42:47] Alex: Right. But I think there's a, difference between, potentially having a better job than working in a mine. I'm not saying that the retraining, talk is always a good idea, but having people doing like difficult manual labor versus something that is more engaging and maybe doesn't,
you know.
[00:43:01] Troy: write prompts.
[00:43:02] Brian: Yeah, I know. Did anyone ask them if they didn't want their jobs anymore? I think
we got the answer in 2016.
[00:43:09] Alex: I'm not, creating a, like a two-sided thing here. I'm just saying this is another one of those, right. I'm not,
[00:43:14] Brian: Yeah.
[00:43:14] Troy: Yeah, I think advertising
[00:43:16] Brian: for the writers.
[00:43:16] Troy: It ended when, DJ Khaled walked, on stage to promote Dorito Pizza for Pizza Hut. That's it. It's over.
[00:43:24] Alex: Yeah.
it. Yeah.
[00:43:26] Brian: think
DJ CO's gonna be in Cannes.
[00:43:28] Alex: Probably,
[00:43:29] Brian: By the way, do you know how many random celebrities go to Cannes? It's shocking. Shocking how many
celebrities go
to an advertising festival.
[00:43:37] Troy: I had dinner, when a very enjoyable dinner with boy George at Hotel
Deka. That was
[00:43:41] Brian: so I think that's something, when you think about like advertising, it's easy to like shit on it in some ways, but when you start to realize just how much it drives like cultural industries, it's shocking cuz there are so many stars who come up and are out there cuz we're all in sales to some degree and they're out there selling that's it.
[00:43:59] Troy: Yeah,
Alex,
[00:44:00] Alex: yeah.
[00:44:01] Troy: if I could, why don't you try to say something optimistic now, just to wrap this up and we'll move into good product out.
[00:44:07] Brian: Yeah.
[00:44:07] Alex: You asking me to say something optimistic.
[00:44:09] Troy: Yeah. I thought that'd be interesting.
[00:44:10] Alex: I, I,
[00:44:13] Brian: Summer.
[00:44:14] Alex: it's summer. I do, Think there's an exciting, time and we're gonna see very exciting tools and, and things that empower people. and we're gonna see a lot of new businesses, spring up, out of all this kind of access to new power and new technology.
I know it's, it's a lot of doom and gloom. the internet needs to be, especially the web needs to be deconstructed and reconstructed, into something better. the startup scene was becoming very samey. I think we have a, of also deconstruction of, of social media as a concept.
So, I am excited about that change and, I hope a lot of young people with good ideas kind of come in and, and do stuff that makes the world a little better. so I do think, I'm excited about the future in some ways.
[00:44:56] Brian: Yeah, I don't think the old system was working that great. Nobody seemed happy with it,
so
[00:45:00] Alex: No, I
[00:45:00] Brian: know, why not try something new?
[00:45:02] Alex: really fucked the internet up, and then Apple capitalized on that to put everything behind their app store. So it's not great. I, gather
that I'll never be hired by Google or Apple at this stage or
Facebook. So,
[00:45:12] Brian: I have plenty, for you to engage with around good products. Okay, let's just go in a good product.
[00:45:16] Troy: All right.
[00:45:17] Good product
[00:45:19] Troy: Well, I just have a few things. First of, I just got into a fight with my wife about, we were driving this morning and I wanted, I really am into egg McMuffins and she is sort of morally opposed to McDonald's and she insists that we get egg bites at Starbucks.
and I tried to explain that there really wasn't a huge amount different, because they haven't, they have a sausage egg and cheese muffin at Starbucks, which is just vastly inferior to the egg McMuffin. And she said, no, but the meat is better. Starbucks, at least doesn't put bad things into their sausage patties.
And I'm like, they're from the same place. And they're both big, nasty profit optimizing corporations. I, of course, drove into the Starbucks to make sure everybody was happy. I had a sausage McMuffin people long time ago on this podcast. I said that the Egg McMuffin is a good product.
[00:46:08] Alex: Might have been your
[00:46:09] Brian: Oh yeah. I
[00:46:09] Troy: that
[00:46:10] Brian: I was getting, I was getting like flashbacks. I'm like,
didn't we talk about this?
[00:46:13] Troy: Yeah. Yeah. It's just a,
it's just not a good,
[00:46:15] Brian: good products?
[00:46:16] Troy: I'm not recycling. I just wanted a little update for folks that have been longtime
listeners.
[00:46:20] Alex: Yeah.
[00:46:20] Brian: that's true. It's The, magic of media.
[00:46:23] Troy: I, wanted, to then focus on a couple of things. One is, one of my kids is kind of going back and watching the classics and we watched Jaws yesterday it's a terrific movie.
And it's so great when someone just takes time narratively to kind of like build the tension up. The kid's on the paddle board, it takes the shark a while to come over, they're fighting on the boat to make sure that, it's just a great movie. And then afterward the basketball came, came on and there was an ad for a new movie coming out called Meg two,
which features a giant prehistoric shark of some type
that basically breaks.
Yeah. just basically just eats people, like breaks through the aquarium glass or jumps on. there's no kind of,narrative subtlety at all. And it was just an interesting contrast between how we watched entertainment before. and how we make entertainment. Now, having said that, I also had a chance to watch a movie that everybody should watch again, which is the original Blade Runner, which by the way, Alex has an eyeball guy.
Remember the eyeball
guy?
[00:47:26] Alex: Mm-hmm.
[00:47:27] Troy: That movie is basically perfect and it's so, relevant now, that I would just highly recommend it. But, my final observation in maybe getting to a good product would be, you know, it's not a peach, it's not a fig, it's not green tea or some shit, Brian, don't worry.
I have to say that, and this is gonna make me sound old, but I don't think there was a better decade for music than the seventies, and I think that seventies soft rock and soul, Is the high water mark for, easy listening and I mean everything from like yellow to more obscure choice.
You know that song Brandy, do you know the song Brandy From The Looking Glass? Or even real hit makers like The Begs or Rod Stewart, or even like Nick d Drake. There's just so much Gladys Knight in the Pips. the
seventies was the best and the best way to get at the seventies if you're driving is a station called the Bridge on Sirius xm.
just a perfect way to pass time in the car.
[00:48:27] Alex: I think liking seventies music didn't make you sound old, but, mentioning Sirius XM did,
[00:48:33] Brian: Hey, Susie Watford, c O of Sirius xm, I believe is coming to the Curve Cafe to the new attention to coffee. Seriously,
[00:48:43] Alex: Jesus,
[00:48:44] Brian: just throwing it out there.
[00:48:45] Alex: Troy, when you say the seventies, to me it's like 1972 to 1982, right?
it starts a little bit late.
[00:48:52] Troy: Yeah.
[00:48:53] Alex: Yeah. It's 72 into into the early eighties. And that like yacht rock type stuff as
[00:48:58] Troy: Well,
Y Ya
Rock is
[00:49:00] Brian: had a moment.
[00:49:01] Troy: favorite part of it. Yeah.
Yeah.
[00:49:02] Brian: Rock was popular for like a
minute. And
then
[00:49:05] Alex: Never
dies
[00:49:06] Troy: my house it's very, very popular.
Ya
rock. Oh yeah.
Big time. In fact, I think that Sirius has a dedicated yacht rock station every summer. It's basically the bridge. It's the same thing. So anything on any of that, any of those movies resonate with you
[00:49:21] Alex: I mean, blade Runner is one of my favorite movies. incredible movie that still holds up visually, which is
[00:49:27] Troy: Massive.
[00:49:28] Alex: Which is massive. Right. and it's hard to tell if films that came out in the last 10 years will ever hold up, the same way Blade Runner does.
and it's moody and it feels like an indie movie, even though it's like this massive production. absolutely. And the first Jaws, how did your kids like the first Jaws?
[00:49:44] Troy: I got said They loved it.
[00:49:45] Alex: Yeah.
[00:49:45] Troy: Well, Well, the closeups of the
[00:49:47] Alex: Oh no, the shark looks, looks, looks bad, but, I always wonder because the pacing is so different movies are so much chop here now everything moves so fast. I always wonder how some of these film kind of resonate with
[00:49:58] Brian: Yeah, but like Jaws is a good example. Like where, just to bring it back to AI a little bit. I mean, a lot of movies are formulaic, so AI is gonna take a lot of, when you do the sequels and even Jaws itself, it's just Beowulf with a shark, not grundle Ilike when we think about all of these like bursts of genius creativity, a lot of it is pattern matching and formulaic
[00:50:19] Troy: But, but in this case, I think there's an elegance to how it was executed. It's less about
[00:50:24] Brian: sure.
[00:50:24] Troy: the story arc and more about how it was done.
[00:50:26] Alex: Cinematography and just the pacing of it. Yeah. I mean, I think we tell the same stories over and over, but I think the way we reformulate it is nearly as exciting. Right? Like blues is, very similar structurally every time you play it. But I don't think that's what's I think, there's so much about Jaws that works because of.
The cast, doing things. and also the story behind Hyatt was shot and all the trouble they had, and the fact that the shark has shown less than they thought it was because it kept breaking. And that's actually created a tension that wasn't, predicted. and I think that once you have access and no constraint, and you wanna make a shark movie, then you end up with the ME two where Jason Statham is jumping out of a helicopter, holding your harpoon, towards a shark that's 200 feet long.
that's what happens. Constraints, mistakes, real people. I don't know. I think that's what people appreciate about these older movies. People were also like, I don't know, a little, like they had more blemishes,
but yet we're so still handsome and good looking.
[00:51:23] Brian: But isn't that the, the big assumption that I think is just an assumption is that people will gravitate, blindly and dumbly just to this synthetic content versus like stuff that they know, like humans made. Because humans will always, I think it's just an assumption that know where it comes from necessarily.
I mean, I understand, but do we have evidence that, people on Moss are going to prefer synthetic bullshit? AI content?
[00:51:48] Alex: No,
[00:51:48] Brian: I, don't know, maybe.
[00:51:49] Alex: I, have trouble believing in it. That's just purely because, I've managed to have my own little AB test. not that I was planning it, but I saw something, I saw a piece of art that I liked. I thought, that's quite nice looking, interesting looking. And then found out it was ai.
And the second I found out it was ai, the appeal disappeared. I caught myself immediately, like going oh, this is no longer appealing to me. and I think there's something about. Realness that is, really compelling. That being said, I think there's going to be a lot of stuff that can be, and that will be AI generated.
I think, people are not gonna mind it when it's porn. I think people are not gonna mind, experiencing stuff like news like that, or just absorbing information. I mean, there's certain things that people will just want to consume, just as like a fast food diet and other things that will need to be
[00:52:35] Brian: Right, but you know, fast food didn't put 11 Madison out of business.
[00:52:39] Alex: but it created a, health epidemic that we're still for. So knows
it.
[00:52:44] Brian: the, egg McMuffin,
[00:52:45] Alex: Yeah, I mean, I'm, with Troy that, the Starbucks stuff isn't good, but I'm also with, Jill that, it's McDonald's is probably not
[00:52:52] Brian: you know, you can make those yourself at home in the air fryer and they're really good. Just take a ramekin, put a little bit of water in there, drop the egg in. You get that steamed egg just like McDonald's and boom, you're ready to go.
[00:53:05] Troy: You didn't let us have a microwave for a long time. We did get one cuz it came to the house. No, we don't have a mic. Oh, you need an, okay. Not a microwave. An air fryer.
[00:53:13] Brian: This is, no, you gotta air fryer this.
[00:53:15] Alex: And air fry an egg. Well, that's a good product.
[00:53:17] Brian: Yeah, seriously. And also get yourself some ramens if you don't have ramens in your house. Get ramekins.
[00:53:23] Alex: I have Ramens.
[00:53:24] Brian: Okay, good. You're sorted.
[00:53:25] Outro
[00:53:25] Brian: All right, let's wrap up there. The
[00:53:27] Alex: Okay.
[00:53:27] Brian: that, that would've been a good product cuz it's an actual product.
,
[00:53:32] Brian: I was very disappointed by the end of succession.
really? I thought it was
[00:53:35] Alex: thought it was great.
[00:53:36] Troy: No, come
[00:53:37] Brian: What? What? What would you have preferred?
[00:53:39] Troy: Somehow I was kind of cheering for Kendall,
there was the realization that he was disqualified from everything. Cuz he'd had that little slip up.
[00:53:46] Alex: Little slip up. Or he killed someone.
[00:53:48] Brian: guy,
[00:53:50] Alex: Look,
[00:53:50] Troy: Yeah.
[00:53:52] Alex: All right.
[00:53:52] Troy: Thank
[00:53:53] Brian: right guys 


PVA S1E39
PVA S1E39
[00:00:00] Cold Open
[00:00:00] Alex: by the way. I'm gonna do a free Bombas ad. Man. Bombas is such a great company. I was ordering some socks for my trip and I forgot to pay for the extra fast shipping and I noticed that it wasn't gonna get downtime. I said, I sent them, message over the weekend and said, oh, I'm sorry, can we cancel this order?
And I would like to redo it with a faster, delivery. and they said, no worries. We've resented with faster deliveries and if the other order still gets there, feel free to keep both sets.
So, I mean, that's also probably amazing margins on those socks. But,great, great service. Great, great service.
Use, the code, p v a, checkout. true. I
[00:00:35] Brian: All right. I take back the part about them not being the best socks.
[00:00:38] Troy: That's a new segment. I think that we should do a Alex's fake ad reads.
[00:00:45] Alex:
[00:01:07] Welcome start
[00:01:07] Brian: Welcome to People Versus Algorithms, a show about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Morrisy of the Rebooting, and each week I'm joined by Troy Young Investor and Longtime Media Exec, as well as writer of the People versus Algorithms newsletter. And Alex Schleifer, former head of Design at Airbnb and c e o of Universal Entities.
Alex has been patient in recent weeks, okay, mostly patient with the last few episodes, veering into the muck of the advertising world this week. We are gonna mostly operate on Alex's turf with a discussion of the new Apple mixed reality headset slash goggle thing that will come next year. I'm fascinated by whether this will ever take off.
One part of me feels it is inevitable that computing will progress to where it is embedded within our bodies, so it makes sense that the next step. Is to bring computing literally to our face and in our everyday consciousness in the form of ar slash vr. I'm also aware, however, of the experience of Google Glass and the utter ridiculousness of that brief period in 2014 where we chose to pretend it wasn't bizarre and antisocial to wear around a computer on your face.
But Apple is different. It has earned the benefit of the doubt when it comes to getting people excited and bought into new technology paradigms. Unlike Troy and Alex, I'm not ready to rush out and put one of these things on my face and ride the A train just yet. But I will try to be open-minded. So this week we discuss whether Apple can drag us into this new era of computing, how it intersects with AI and the future of cnn, and more to the point why it even matters.
Since, as Alex has said, the alien ship of AI is over the White House. So who cares What a second place Cable News network that draws just over a half million viewers in primetime does. And finally, Good products For the summers, I try to hijack Joy's segment to discuss the classic Boardwalk game, the Claw, which is rigged, but still fun.
I hope you enjoy this episode. Please leave us a rating and review on Apple or Spotify or wherever you get this podcast. Always enjoy reading those. I'm not sure if I actually, reference this one, so I'm gonna reference, one from Jordan Lee Wilcox who said, Laser accurate and hot to put us succinctly.
These guys are exactly what we need to listen to right now. Troy, Alex and Brian bring so much experience to their commentary. It's like hiring a C-suite to advise you every week. Keep it up folks. Fire and fear you bring in my heart. Every episode is a crucible I need in these dangerous times. So we are here for you, Jordan Lee Wilcox, to bring the fire and the fear.
if you have any feedback, do send me a note. my email is Brian. They've rebooting.com. Copy. Enjoy the episode.
[00:03:31] Welcome End
[00:03:32] Alex: So what are we gonna talk about today? Nothing really happened.
[00:03:35] Brian: this is your Day to Shine. This is your episode to Shine. you've put up with all this talk about advertising and all this crap, and now we're gonna talk about face computers.
[00:03:44] Alex: I don't think we need to talk about face computers all that much. I think,
[00:03:48] Brian: Really? Because that's what I have down on my notes.
[00:03:51] Troy: we should start with the I people. The I people are getting older. They're sort of like late middle aged now.
[00:03:57] Alex: you mean the people that were presenting the I products,
[00:03:59] Troy: Yes.
[00:04:00] Alex: and, Gang,
[00:04:01] Troy: this sort of disconnect between the video presentation and the voice track, which made it sound kind of weird. And there was the gray-haired guy that was talking about the MacBook and, well, no, he's talking about the operating system.
[00:04:13] Alex: Craig
[00:04:14] Troy: It was weird. Is that
[00:04:15] Brian: The guy with the guitar,
[00:04:16] Troy: Yeah,
[00:04:17] Alex: iOS, Craig Rigi. Yeah. I mean, they're all getting. I mean, they all have white hair, they've been doing a better job of bringing people on. But, I'm gonna say like they're so good at making these things. They're so good at making it. But,
[00:04:29] Troy: almost too good Alex. It's a
little too much.
[00:04:32] Alex: you can see that a logistics person has taken over.
Everything is really well run. But I gotta be honest, not a huge vision for this feature release of this headset. It's just, I still don't understand needs it.
[00:04:43] Brian: Okay, so let's, let's, let's back up for a second they had a typical thing where they released I don't know, a thinner, bigger laptop and all this other stuff, but it was all a lead up to these goggles, vision headset
[00:04:55] Troy: Yeah, but on, on the way, Brian, there were a lot of real solid singles and doubles in terms of just really nice enhancements to the operating systems and stuff that, makes tons of sense. That I want, I want that s*it
[00:05:08] Brian: Yeah.
[00:05:08] Alex: Well, apple has a way of, of releasing things that maybe Android might have had for a while, just doing it slightly better and making people excited about it. You know what I love about Apple
[00:05:17] Brian: But this is, I feel about this how you feel about programmatic advertising. Like really are, we gonna spend a lot of time on this. I mean, outside of the incremental upgrades to like,
[00:05:26] Troy: Yeah. Have you ever lost your remote control, your Apple TV remote control? It's a pain in the butt. Now. You can find it with your iPhone.
[00:05:32] Brian: is my problem with Tim Apple.
[00:05:33] Alex: I mean, are you telling me that being able to use your iPhone and making FaceTime calls over TV is the same as a programmatic ad? you think the general populace looks at this and goes oh,
[00:05:43] Brian: No, I'm just talking personally. my interest level in incremental technology improvements is sort of minimal. So we're just
trying to
[00:05:50] Troy: hate to pile on with Alex here, Brian, but I really want tap to switch contacts. I, I love that feature. I want airplane, a hotel room. I want video, voicemail. I want, oh, I want that one where I can put my face automatically over my presentation. cool. You didn't see that one.
[00:06:08] Brian: No.
[00:06:08] Troy: it's like video chatting, but it automatically outlines your head and then it puts your presentation, like your keynote presentation behind you so you can kind of present elegantly, like on top of your
[00:06:20] Alex: Oh, it's like a TikTok. It's but these events, these events are always weird because they'll go like from presenting the new M2 ULTRA processors, which is like two max chips, which are already crazy attached to each other, and they're putting that in a Mac Pro that can get up to a hundred eight ninety two gigabytes of rem.
These are like world. Changing machines. And then they do a, nice little shift to like, and now if you long press this button, you can add a sticker to a message. It's a fucking wild thing that they do. just like as a marketing event? As a marketing event, which company can even get away with that?
Spend an as much time on like a sticker or like balloons that pop up when you, when you put two thumbs up, during a video call and then announce brand new devices and health monitoring and depression monitoring and all that type of sh*tI think the scale of the improvement stuff is where Apple is actually really good at, at this stage.
They can do many, many minor improvements at once, which they weren't that good at. but I do think while the headset was,
[00:07:17] Troy: The headset was badass. let's
get up,
[00:07:19] Alex: But I don't understand. Do you think Jobs would've released that without a clear
vision? It's not.
[00:07:24] Troy: the,
that
will be the subject of, of endless speculation.
[00:07:27] Alex: there's no thousand songs in your pocket.
There's no taking something out of a manila envelope, you know, look like an as*hole on the plane, look like an as*hole around your family they can't get away from the fact that this is very cool. technically, but do I need it? I want it. I'm definitely buying one, but I, I don't know how it changes the world in any way.
And I think That vision of interface is dystopian when the interface shift that's actually happening. The interface shift that's happening right now is ai and there was not one mention of ai, which is refreshing in a way, but it's also what. Craig Federighi literally had like 10 seconds on the fact that Siri can now show you multiple timers on your iPad at once as a feature update.
[00:08:08] Brian: Yeah, so I guess that's the point. I mean, this has been billed as Apple's biggest product release in some time, since the, iPhone. But I, I don't know. I'd love to spend more time on the, the double thumbs up sort of
feature, but
[00:08:21] Troy: the double thumbs up feature's. Awesome. So I do agree that multiple timers seems trivial next to all the other stuff. So a nice one, Alex, the eye screen. Is bizarre. It's awesome and it makes tons of sense, but it's very strange that we're now gonna be looking at people's virtualize all the time. I'm not sure there's anything you can do about the asshole thing.
I'm wearing that on a plane. I'm sorry. I'm definitely gonna
[00:08:44] Alex: Oh, business class is going to be full of these fucking things. That's gonna be all of business class for sure.
[00:08:50] Brian: well while I'm on my way back to Comfort Plus I'm going to be giving you guys like the stink eye.
[00:08:55] Alex: with your off
brand
Bluetooth
[00:08:58] Troy: business
[00:08:59] Brian: fly, you
don't
[00:08:59] Troy: now,
[00:09:00] Brian: do you?
[00:09:00] Troy: Brian, you can render business class on the headset.
You're done,
[00:09:04] Alex: right.
[00:09:05] Brian: Oh yeah. It's
[00:09:07] Alex: You just need to ignore your legs.
[00:09:09] Troy: yeah. Yeah. But that you got Facebook for that. They ignored the legs.
[00:09:14] Brian: Okay.
[00:09:14] Troy: a good,
that's a, that's a good joke.
[00:09:16] Alex: That
is a
[00:09:17] Brian: it is,
[00:09:18] Alex: don't say That's a good joke. you sound like Scott Galloway.
[00:09:20] Troy: I
gotta tell you,
[00:09:21] Alex: was, funny.
[00:09:22] Troy: Alex, I really wanted to talk to you about the crown because the idea that you can dial up and dial down reality is, banging. It's such a good idea.
[00:09:32] Alex: Look, from a feature perspective, here are the things that I think they got right. And that could be like, easier pill to swallow for most people. First of all, those screens are apparently very good. the crown, like an easy device to, take reality in and out, it's kind of like a big deal.
and having a nice hardware, dial to do that is, really quite, useful and I think they'll design it well. the fact that you see the eyes through the lens, even though that's weird, I think we'll create a lot of, this is great audio content.
[00:09:59] Brian: This is why we gotta do the
[00:10:00] Alex: a, Troy just came back with an Oculus quest, on his face
[00:10:04] Brian: It looks totally
[00:10:05] Alex: looks like a complete
[00:10:06] Troy: see my eyes.
[00:10:08] Alex: I can't see,
but that's why everybody, that's why I put googly eyes on mine. and so they're doing a lot of things that will actually help the kind of, the disconnect between people outside the world and you in the world.
[00:10:18] Troy: they're adding a lot of I would say incremental features to the AR headsets, I seeing through and the, the vision dial and stuff like that, that will, make this, you know,I, I think the increment,
it's base level value proposition. You can put the headset on and not feel completely disconnected and vulnerable.
Have you ever put that?
[00:10:35] Alex: I agree. I
totally agree. I mean, although on, on, on the Oculus quest, you can also kind of blend reality. It's in black and white, but you can blend reality and not, and. I'm saying they're improving on all of these things. They are, except for the fact that I cannot see a real use case yet.
The only one that feels like really like a winner for this, that will make me buy it for 3,500 bucks. and I think the only one being that it's a great replacement for screen, I think, cuz you can have your laptop and then you can have a giant screen that's projected about that laptop. Now we laugh, but I think that would be nice for me, since I'm working on a game and I do need,my code editor on one side and then I'd be able to look at the game and if I could do this in a virtual space and higher enough resolution, there's value there.
it's, valuable. But I don't think it's, it feels like the iPad, when the iPad got released, something that's technically impressive, people will buy it. But this is not, this is not the interface shift. The interface shift is going to be AI before it is this stuff.
[00:11:29] Troy: I think that's a good point, but what about the supple, woven cable?
[00:11:32] Alex: the
[00:11:32] Troy: This is not my words. No, no, no. I love apple language. It's the modifiers I like. They called it the, the supple woven cable.
[00:11:41] Brian: so Troy is attracted to the Frippery. I wanna focus though on
[00:11:45] Alex: I mean, it's a masterclass in presentation, Brian. I mean, you
[00:11:48] Brian: we can get to the master cast, but the actual. Product itself, right? So virtual reality, they didn't mention virtual reality a lot this sort of blends into the marketing challenge because the marketing challenge is Google Glass.
Google Glass was outside of those of you who might have worn. It was just a laughing stock. Like I actually started a Tumblr, the ladies of Google Glass, just collecting photos of women wearing Google Glass. It's ridiculous. and virtual reality has led to all kinds of jokes. We talked about the people not having legs or idiots wearing it on the subway and stuff like this.
And feel like this is a new technology that already has and maybe this is, is sort of me in the smart Alec class, has some challenges because it's thought of. In a negative light just before it even begins. a lot of technology paradigms start with excitement. I feel like this one is starting where, because of what has come out so far, people are saying, why the hell do I need a screen on my face to get away from screens?
[00:12:47] Alex: it's a huge hill to climb.
[00:12:49] Troy: you don't wanna design a surfboard while getting toast for your children.
[00:12:52] Brian: No,
I don't.
[00:12:53] Troy: That's in the ad,
[00:12:54] Alex: That
[00:12:55] Brian: Okay.
[00:12:55] Alex: it's a huge challenge that, so there's two forces at play here. One, which is the progress of human computer interaction, which started with the human being really far away and using punch cards to then creating a keyboard to then having a mouse, which was a natural way to then being able to, literally touch the glass that the data was happening on.
And then, so if you draw a line, and you got half a brain, you go like, well, the next step is right in front of our eyes, right? And so everybody's like, well, that's the future. All right? So that's that thing. Then on the other side of it, it's got all these things, like, it's fucking dystopian.
It's about putting something between yourself and reality. and it's wearing something on your face, which always makes you look bad, anything that we put on our face feels so much more like a decision, right? the wrist was even hard for them, right? To get people to add the watch.
So putting something on your face, no matter how you look at it, makes you look bad and undesirable. so these two things are in conflict. And on top of that, like the Adam bomb of AI coming in saying, you know what, actually we're gonna skip straight ahead the world of the interface where it's like right in your eyeballs, and we're just gonna go straight between you and your brain so you can just have a conversation with it.
And actually, it is maybe better to have screens and kind of displays on the things that you need to interact with. it's got a lot going against it. At the same time, as a technologist, I'm very impressed and excited to try it, but I have bought a dozen VR headsets that I have maybe collectively used for like 30 hours.
I don't think people will use it.
[00:14:19] Brian: so Troy, from like a marketing perspective, brand perspective. does this get over all the hurdles that vr, ar mixed reality, these goggles inevitably are gonna have, because I just believe, like you said, Alex, when it comes to putting a computer in your face, it's a lot different than having a laptop, than having an iPad, than even having an eye watch.
A face is, it's personal and it's our, identity in some ways. And I think computing is already, encroaching on our identity in a more profound way, probably with, ai. And so I think it's entering a very fraught
[00:14:53] Troy: I think that we need to separate out a bunch of things. Like is there something creepy and dystopian about this? And are we edging into a period of full kind of computer augmentation or integration in a way that feels uncomfortable? Like, we should just go for a hike.
So let's just set that aside for a minute. Okay. And I want if you've used a headset, the biggest and most disorienting part of it is when you put it on, you don't know what the fuck is going on around you. you feel vulnerable, you feel completely disconnected. I think that the insight that both people can see you and you can see out, and there's a way to dial it up and dial it down is, a really interesting answer.
the proof will be in using it.
having said that, there will be people lined up around the block, okay, putting $3,500 unjustified charges on their credit card. this will be a bang in success. People will buy. You know why? Because of what Alex said.
Because suddenly you have the world's best home theater on your face. That simple use case that you can go somewhere in your small apartment and watch, fully immersive, incredible spatial audio, whatever. Great, entertainment experience or gaming experience will be something that a lot of people seek out.
it will be a small part of the population, but this will be, an important and popular new product is my prediction.
[00:16:16] Brian: Apple doesn't do niche like they do scaled products that are used by millions,
[00:16:20] Troy: okay. It's okay. I gotta tell you, when I saw the iPod, I was like, this is wickedly cool. that one? It was a little easier to see how mu who would use it and all of that. The watch, I was incredibly skeptical about, look what's happened to the watch.
I mean, it's, it,
[00:16:35] Brian: sucks,
[00:16:35] Troy: it's far and away.
[00:16:36] Alex: the
high, it's the, it is the best selling watch in the world, Brian. I mean, you know, don't you use an Android phone or something?
[00:16:42] Brian: I don't know. I use Apple products. I use an Apple Watch.
I
[00:16:45] Alex: I think we're having different conversations here, right? I think they'll sell every one of those things that they make for sure.
I mean, there's just at least like a, an enterprise, reasoning for this with people working from home and being able to, especially like when you're kind of collaborating on three stuff or stuff, like there'll be use cases for it. my, issue with it is, this is often touted as kind of the next step.
This is the next phone, right? this is the inter shift. the phone didn't destroy the need for computers, but it definitely became the main way people use. Computer interfaces. I think this is often taught as that. I think it's nowhere close. And I think that by the time the technology becomes so good, that it is truly ambient, that it truly looks like my glasses and doesn't have a cable going to a battery.
the human interface be so kind of engaged in this kind of AI models of just like thinking or talking to computers that this stuff will feel like, a pro tool. I buy a 13 inch iPad. I know I'm one of the few people who do I use it for drawing?
That's my thing. It's gotta be a small market. think the thing that's disappointing for Apple is that there was no clear vision, 1000 songs in your pocket type thing for this. And even when you saw the iPhone, you immediately saw like, ah, shit. Yes, I always wanted to do this, but I never could. You know, it's an internet communicator, it's a phone, and oh, it's got all of these things together. That felt genuinely like a good value proposition. And I think part of the issue is that Apple is that they don't have the product marketing that they did under Steve Jobs. Steve Jobs was a product marketer.
the product and how to market what people needed and how to tell that story. They've lost that, they've become incredibly good at logistics, at engineering that their chips are just a marvel. the m architecture chips that they announce are a marvel of technology.
but yet, when it comes to a vision for humanity and how we're going to use computers, it all feels very. You know, Microsoft doing a future tech demo,here's how we're going to talk and it's going to auto translate and here's how the school of the future looks. And it's all stuff that's very niche and doesn't actually move the needle much on how we use
computers.
Honestly,
[00:18:42] Troy: I don't really know what you're talking about to be honest, are you trying to say that they couldn't distill down the consumer value proposition in a single line either because the use case doesn't exist, or they haven't built an application to manifest it, or because they're bad marketers.
[00:19:01] Alex: I don't think the product has it. they're good marketers and they're good builders. I think what they don't have is a story that they can build around something like that, that says, this is why this defi, this is why this device deserves to be in your life.
You
know, you've seen, uh, you've seen iPods before?
No, because I don't, I think this, this is one of those things. This is one of those technologies. This is one of those visions of the future that every single technologist is so sure it's coming. They wanna force it down our throats.
[00:19:27] Brian: Well, that's why I was asking about the mass appeal. I mean, I
[00:19:30] Alex: the, the, the, yes and the issue is maybe, maybe the mass appeal is there.
If you can turn this into something that looks like the size of glasses that doesn't have a massive battery hanger off it, but we're decades away from that, and by the time dad gets here,
[00:19:44] Brian: oh my God, why are
we doing this podcast on this thing then? Oh my God, decades away. what are we doing here? Let's talk about programmatic advertising that's here now.
[00:19:52] Alex: Yeah. Or don't we know? I mean, imagine, you know, one thing, I'm pretty sure there's gonna be lots of people at Cannes going, oh my God, can we put ads on this thing?
[00:20:01] Brian: Oh yeah. We're
[00:20:01] Alex: ads in front. Can we put ads in front of people's?
[00:20:04] Brian: when this kid goes, says hello to his dad, can we put a NAD on this kid's face?
[00:20:08] Alex: Because we know that's where they're looking.
Yeah. We are adding a session at the New Attention Economy at the Curve Cafe to discuss this very topic. We do have AI and creativity. Myron Nusbaum from Havas is coming to talk about this. this is some Apple level marketing you're doing
[00:20:24] Brian: it wa was very strange. There was no mention of advertising or even programmatic advertising,
[00:20:29] Alex: wonder why. I wonder why.
I wonder why. You know why? Because Apple wants to be liked and cool.
[00:20:35] Brian: Yeah, but that's the direction this goes. So this isn't even, this isn't a mass market product that those of us who are not early adopters don't really have to care about this for several years.
Is that
the conclusion?
[00:20:44] Troy: personally, I'm gonna put one on Grandma.
[00:20:46] Brian: Okay. Well, I guess there will, or, I mean, do people want this, I guess, and, and, and can Apple make people want this? Because I don't think that Facebook can make people want the Oculus. because they just have too much baggage and they're just not known for that kind of thing.
But Apple, I do think could make this a reality that other companies, I would be like, eh, I don't think you
can make a mass market outta this. They got a good record
[00:21:09] Alex: Well, I mean, I think the reason Meta can never do this, which is why they were always, I think their strategy was always kind of baffling to me is that they don't own enough of the stack. they own like one of the final elements of the stack.
Meta's really good at making hardware. they did some really nice portals, which were like little tablets that you could call people on, and it had face tracking and stuff like that. The problem is that they're meta, nobody wants something that has Facebook on their, desk.
And the second thing is they don't own enough of the stack, apple could come out and say, Hey, and this runs like thousands of iPad ads and it connects to your computer and everything's integrated and you don't have to fucking fuck with u s BBC cables and drivers and anything like that.
So there's very few companies that can do this. and I think there's very few companies that will do this because it'll look like it's a massive ordeal to get there. It them billions of dollars and it's going to be a small business.
[00:21:56] Brian: So Trey, how surprised are you that that this thing is not even available until next year? It's not even available for the holiday shopping season, which is, when Alex mentioned Microsoft, I'm reminded of Microsoft always rolls out these like products that are not available and then sometimes they never even come to fruition.
is this? I mean, is this Apple becoming Microsoft? And like, why in the world are they trying to rush this, this announcement out before they even have a product that's available?
[00:22:21] Troy: I suspect that It's either because there's, some complexity in the supply chain, getting it out and all that stuff. It's a really complicated product. Or because they wanted enough runway to get, it into the hands of developers. So now what they have is they have the next eight months to get people making stuff for it.
[00:22:41] Alex: Before they
even have access to it, Because
[00:22:43] Troy: yeah, the,
[00:22:43] Alex: when it's coming out. It's coming out
[00:22:45] Troy: the, well they, yeah, it is like q1, I'm assuming, but They couldn't get, developers involved because of the secrecy of the new product. So now they have a long, they have a long runway to do that.
[00:22:56] Brian: I mean, even Atari came out with like asteroids and like a couple other games. so basically, I'll speak as someone who is not gonna, has 12 VR headsets like in the basement. The only way that I would buy this, and I think most people, is if there's a reason to have this.
and I think your grandma, when she's gonna have to stick strapped in her head, is gonna want a reason that she has this thing strapped in her head. I don't wanna speak for grandma. is the test on this thing gonna be, if they can get developers to make incredible experiences that people will wanna strap this thing on their face I guess I don't see it.
It's like Disney Plus is available. Okay. I guess really?
[00:23:33] Alex: the issue that I have with it as always is it's a technology looking for a solution, and it, there's like a lot of pretty obvious ones that come up. So rather than saying, here's this thing that does this very well, it's the same thing as the meta stuff where it says like, oh look, is this person that's a recipe, but at the same time can say hello to their child when they come in?
Look, you can watch movies real big literally sitting on a couch in front of a very large tv, then making your, putting a helmet on so you can see an even larger TV is kind of lame. and,and you know
what, like, honestly, the only case, the only use case that I see is co-working.
[00:24:05] Brian: we could all be in a room together and have this sense of presence and stuff like that. That type of stuff, really, will change your mind on the usefulness of this stuff. This is gonna make me wanna go back to an office.
[00:24:15] Alex: but it feels to me like, hey, maybe they'll sell a lot. But you know, like the Apple Watch, they released it nearly a decade ago.
They're still fucking with what the Crown does. The Crown, which they announce as like the biggest innovation in computing since the mouse. Then they're saying, okay, well now it does something different. I can tell you I've owned a few of these watches. I still don't understand what the buttons do. I still press the wrong
[00:24:35] Brian: That's why I'm saying it's a bad product.
[00:24:37] Troy: Okay. Okay.
[00:24:38] Alex: It's not great in
[00:24:40] Troy: I think the, probably the biggest issue
with
[00:24:42] Brian: Apple.
[00:24:43] Alex: I mean, it's beautiful. The, the industrial designer is beautiful, but the software in the use
case is great as a watch and as a fitness tracker. And I think that they could have done the same thing here and saying, here's this the way this is going to change the way you work. I think
[00:24:55] Troy: when, when my kids come downstairs and I'm sitting in my EAMS chair with my headset on it's awkward. And they don't know what you're watching. They see your digital eyes. And, the problem is you can't, it's like when you, when you buy an electric bike, you can't buy one electric bike cuz then the other person riding with you is way behind you.
You have to buy two or three electric bikes and I think that entertainment
[00:25:18] Alex: you think that you just gonna buy one of those. You're gonna spend, you're gonna drop $10,000 to get your kids like VR headsets, so you cannot look at each
[00:25:26] Brian: We were working on your relatability,
[00:25:29] Troy: no, what I was saying is that it's like, oh honey, we're gonna watch a movie tonight. okay, let's watch a movie, but oh, I'd rather watch it on the headset. She's like, no, I want the headset. gotta get a couple headsets. Right. And
[00:25:40] Alex: Or you get no headsets. What you actually do with
kids is you say, okay, well if you, if you can't
[00:25:44] Brian: I mean, is this too obvious?
[00:25:46] Troy: I mean, how often do you watch movies on your own?
I actually do a lot,
but
[00:25:51] Alex: I don't.
I like social things. We're social creatures. Like we, we,
[00:25:55] Troy: it's an isolating technology.
[00:25:58] Brian: let me ask you this, and this is the problem that I end up having with it, is I feel like a lot of these technologies have reoriented, obviously, like how humans socialize with each other I get some, pushback on this, and not to generalize, but a lot of the people making these technologies don't seem to spend a lot of time with people like in their lives.
And I wonder is this thing necessarily good? Do we need this? why do we need this? I don't, I'm not
really
[00:26:25] Alex: that's the problem. That's, that's what they didn't sell. And nobody can tell you that. And the cost is so high because you look like a fucking doofus. The utility has to be incredible, like AirPods, right? they just managed to make us forget that AirPods look completely idiotic when you just have these two.
But they're so useful and they're such a great product that you get have over time. You just get used to it and you say, fuck it, I'm gonna wear that as a go to,trader Joe's, this is one of the first Apple products. I don't wanna see me anyone wearing. like, I just really don't want to see anyone
[00:26:55] Brian: So are you pro or anti? This, I can't tell.
[00:26:58] Alex: Okay. There's two sides of me. There's the side of things like the computer interface and how people interact with computers is an important topic to me. And how that changes over time is important because I, I think it changes culture and I think it changes the way we experience the world.
And I think it's experience changes the way we communicate, right? On that front, I remain adamant that this type of stuff is a dud. This is not the way we want to experience, computers because it's isolating and you look bad doing it, and you feel bad doing it most of the time. And I think Apple will probably create the best version of it, but will not be able to fix that.
On the technology side and on a just the expertise and how this thing is built. just looking at, they've got a lenticular screen at the front of it and cameras that record your eyeballs and projects it through it. It's like black mirror shit, It's like the most sci-fi shit I've seen in a long time.
And that is exciting to me. But I think from a cultural standpoint, from a, societal standpoint, I don't think this is
[00:27:51] Troy: Hey, Hey, Brian. What you need to understand, Alex is a techno peasant, and he, he, there's a lot of contrast in Alex, and that's what makes him wonderful. He's Austrian in French. He's a poet and a technologist. That's is what's happening, right? So he has, there's a duality to Alex. you're making good points, both of you.
I th I don't know what it's for. I just think I want, it would be cool for a while to have one.
[00:28:15] Alex: Yeah. I mean, I agree with you.
[00:28:16] Troy: I think it'll make business class like even better.
[00:28:19] Brian: Business class.
[00:28:20] Alex: yeah.
[00:28:20] Brian: business class. on, on an airplane. Oh, sorry. alright. Have we done enough on this? Can we talk about CNN
and why Anyone cares about C n N.
[00:28:27] Alex: Do we care? Yeah.
[00:28:29] Troy: Did you mention that there's a supple woven cable?
[00:28:31] Brian: There's a supple, woven cable. Another
[00:28:34] Alex: sorry. Let me just see if there was anything else. I took some notes here before we go into c n N. All right. We can,
[00:28:38] Brian: were like live tweeting it.
[00:28:40] Alex: yeah. I, I always do,
[00:28:41] Brian: That's how I
[00:28:42] Alex: do this the one time I, yeah. So, oh, it's called Sonoma. The new Macs is called Sonoma. And the new desktop background is essentially like next to where I live, which is really nice.
I thought like Sonoma's a great name. I'm happy. It's called, it's called that, they've released a new app called Journaling, and they said it's particularly good for practicing gratitude, which is the most fucking California product launch ever. I love the way they name stuff.
They have this new thing where you can like two iPhones next to each other, and it, drops your contact card and they call it name drop. they have live voicemail now, so when somebody leaves a voicemail, it just types it on the screen. they release a pro computer, which will cost an, ungodly amount of money.
and they turn the iPhone into more of a little of a photo display so you can like, kind of put it sideways and, see the clock and do stuff like that. So it's becoming much more of an ambient computer, something that's useful when you're not using it, which I think is, I like this idea of the iPhone becoming,you know, Android devices done just for years, but more useful when you're not using them, including now I'm using, iPhone as a camera a lot of the time.
and also I just wanted to talk about their intro video. Their intro video is a guy running across the streets. with total disregard for his own safety chasing bubbles, which are obviously like implied to be ar bubbles. And it was just such an interesting choice to make somebody like, just ignore the outside world, nearly get himself killed by trying to catch fake, bubbles through the
[00:30:06] Brian: Yeah, it reminds me, it's like I was like running the other day and there's a guy who was running you know, it's tight in New York. There's too many people. And he was like running into me because he was looking at his phone while running is that guy gonna be wearing this freaking thing on his face, like while running into me
[00:30:21] Alex: I mean, we're gonna see people wearing those
outside.
[00:30:23] Brian: Christ.
[00:30:25] Alex: I gotta say the reveal when, you first see it and then you see the woman's eyes opening. and I think you should all watch this reveal video that you can see the eyes through it. It was just the most. Oh, chilling. It was chilling and exciting.
it was a very confusing experience, this whole thing. But you know what? The markets hated it, and the stock is down, there you
[00:30:45] Troy: It. They don't even know what to make of it. The
[00:30:47] Brian: I'm with the markets.
[00:30:49] Alex: barely down.
It went, it, it went from 85, 180 5 to 1 79. My friend. That's
[00:30:55] Brian: It's because they, the reason is cuz they priced in, I don't know, I'm just gonna say it, it's a podcast. They priced in the fact that it was gonna be available for Q4 and the fact that they, it wasn't available for q4. They were like,
Ooh, this sos
[00:31:07] Alex: yeah, yeah. All
right. Finest guys.
[00:31:11] Brian: We've got, we've got a
[00:31:12] Alex: Guys. Is that the only guys that, advertising guys can make fun of and
[00:31:15] Brian: finance guys.
[00:31:17] Alex: it's just that food chain?
[00:31:19] Brian:
[00:31:19] Alex: okay. Well,
[00:31:20] Brian: there was nothing about advertising in any of these presentations.
[00:31:23] Alex: thankfully not. I mean, except for the fact that the whole thing was an ad. But yes,
[00:31:27] Brian: Yeah. Well, I mean, that's the kind of ad, I mean, look,
[00:31:30] Alex: Apple's going to continue to do advertising. Like it's dirty little business, Like advertising is like going to the toilet. Everybody wants to do it, but it's not like a, you're gonna watch, an interview with Tom Cruise and it says how many times of stage you take a shit.
Well, my bowel movements are great. This is how Apple sees advertising. They're just gonna do it, but they're not gonna talk about it because it's that dirty little thing that they do by themselves in the background.
[00:31:52] Troy: Tom Cruise doesn't, doesn't poop. Alex,
[00:31:55] Brian: I saw my brother-in-law this weekend, and he's, he also singled out Alex as, as his favorite part of the podcast. But then he said, Man, I don't know if you're gonna be able to sell any ads, but,
[00:32:05] Alex: that's my whole plan.
[00:32:07] Brian: so
[00:32:08] Alex: Try me. Come on, try it. Fuckers, we dare you. We dare you. Dubai advertising
[00:32:12] Troy: I will reme. Mind you, Brian, that Alex was the reticent producer slash techno peasant who didn't wanna say anything. Do you remember that? I'm like,
Alex, come on. What do you think now? He's the podcast,
big, big mouth. He's taking over the whole podcast.
[00:32:26] Brian: Can we talk about CNN real quick?
there's all this stuff that happens in like the technology side, and then there's stuff that happens in the media side that seems so prosaic and almost like yesterday's news.
I think this, like when I read, there was just a 15,000 word story that was like reported over a year by Tim Alberta. and it was in the Atlantic. It went super deep with Chris Licht who is trying to turn around CNN n with now being part of Warner Media. And it is not going well. I don't think it is going well, just by all it's not really super going well.
and part of me just wonders, first of all, is CNN like saveable or does it even matter anymore? because we spent a lot of time, we've talked about this on this podcast talking about television news, and I, I watched some Fox News this weekend. It was pretty wild. I know that it has like influence and stuff, but then I was like, looking at the, the numbers, I'm like, man,a half million people view CNN in prime time. I don't know, is, is this just misplaced? Cuz you know, I think to when you're saying like the alien ship is over the White House and there's all this like hand ringing over the future of c n, like they're pro primetime news programs. It just seems a little bit misplaced.
[00:33:35] Alex: Is it one of those things that, cuz politicians have the TV on, then the audience is more valuable.
[00:33:41] Troy: partly, partly, well, I think a lot of old people watch cable news and they vote, so it's an important constituency. I think that the imprimatur of old media, whether it's the cover of a magazine or a a segment on, television remains important. but I do think that, that there's a, just to answer the first question, Brian, there's a little bit of a bigger thing here that's a little bit of a bee in my bonnet.
and it's that, media brands that existed when there were far fewer of them, when their connection to the consumer and their place in the kind of InfoSphere was established and protected. Media brands had real cultural weight. and that weight, like whether it was Vanity Fair or NBC or Seinfeld, those brands sitting inside of these very, very powerful distribution mechanisms made the people that participated in them very famous. And so it was the era of famous magazine editors and, the global celebrities and Walter Cronkite and Dan Rather. And one of the things that Chris Licked is fighting is the sort of, Inevitable decline of cable news. So he's coming in at, at a time when, imagine you're reinventing the morning show on cnn.
Not only are you competing in a shrinking market and really like even the backdrop of changing behaviors in terms of we work. You're fighting well-established, entrenched behaviors around the network, morning shows, and you're trying to build momentum around new personalities that you're inviting into your life in the morning.
this is like having your friends around you having coffee in the morning. So it's important to recognize that the task itself is really difficult. Then you have like go out a ring and you imagine all of these people inside a CNN that, make a good living that in the old days could cross the street if they were unhappy and get another job, are kind of trapped on this ship.
Because there's nowhere else to go.
[00:35:42] Brian: Yeah.
[00:35:42] Troy: and then you've got Chris, who's this kind of earnest television producer, high energy coming in and not really kind of with a deliberate transitional plan, like poking at different things. I'm gonna redo the morning show. I know how to do that. I'm gonna redo nine o'clock.
we're gonna shit. Can our CNN plus, direct initiative, It's a lot of change in an environment where the currents that you're fighting are really strong. So, not only is there, a political minefield inside of the organization.
you've got a really difficult, if not impossible job to. try to, the whole objective of saying we're gonna be a strong kind of source of truth, we're gonna be the centrist network, I think is, maybe a bad brief to begin with, because that's not really how people work.
[00:36:29] Brian: it's also not how, what people want. I mean,
they,
[00:36:31] Troy: that's what I mean.
That's, yeah. And, and so you've got, to me, you've got just a huge amount of headwind and then you've got his miscalculations as a change agent, and he's toast. He came back today and apologized and said, I'll work harder and I'll get stand in front of
the bullets for you and all that. I mean, it just feels, it feels really hard and why he had, Atlantic journalist tell him at the gym is beyond me
like
[00:36:57] Alex: aware of it and he was okay with it.
[00:36:59] Troy: y. For a year. For a year. Alex, there are half of the articles about him being at the gym.
[00:37:05] Alex: you know, when you're getting ripped and getting swollen, you want people to know that.
[00:37:08] Brian: Well, mark Zuckerberg's he's choking dudes out and like jiu-jitsu and whatnot
[00:37:12] Alex: Yeah.
[00:37:12] Brian: these days.
[00:37:13] Alex: Yeah.
[00:37:14] Brian: So that's not unique to media. Tech guys like to get ripped too.
[00:37:17] Alex: Yeah. No, no. is all this stuff over, I think there's also the political climate we're trying to build. there seems to be this path that some people are trying to find to differentiate themselves to become like centrist, show both sides. that doesn't seem to be any money in that because as we've seen from, the attention economy, it's only en arrangement or agreement that really makes money.
you either you turn something on so you can nod along to it or just get furious about it. So if somebody tells you something that it's kind of down the middle, npr, you know,they can make that 12 bucks a month from me.
[00:37:47] Brian: Yeah,
[00:37:47] Alex: Saw cnn.
[00:37:48] Brian: let's what? We're not going to be addressing that at the new attention economy because it's the new attention economy, but
[00:37:53] Alex: All right? Yeah. Because the old attention's been drained of all it's worth.
[00:37:56] Brian: exactly
[00:37:57] Troy: who? Alex. By who?
[00:37:59] Brian: technology vampires.
[00:38:01] Alex: sometimes like this Oppenheimer movie's coming out. I've gotta say like, all of us working in ad tech, we should, we should watch it feel.
We all feel
like merchants with merchant. Yeah. Oppenheimer works in ad tech essentially. Yeah. So,
[00:38:19] Brian: Is that how he got the third party cookie?
[00:38:21] Alex: Yeah, exactly. It is
[00:38:22] Brian: It's a side project he had. all right. So cnn, Chris Lick toast. Right?
[00:38:28] Alex: CNN Toast. Do you think Troy?
[00:38:29] Troy:
I think that these
[00:38:30] Brian: in the long run.
[00:38:31] Troy: CNN's still gonna make 750 million to me this year. In profit. if there was no cable bundle, would CNN exist? That's what you have to ask
[00:38:41] Alex: Man, I would love to get CNN on an app somewhere. It's, I find it very difficult to get any of my news right now.
[00:38:46] Troy: But if you got CNN on an app, CNN wouldn't make a billion dollars a year.
Okay?
[00:38:51] Brian: for like four
a month?
[00:38:52] Troy: Would you pay more than you pay for npr?
[00:38:54] Alex: I'd pay the same, I'd pay $12 a month.
[00:38:56] Brian: Yeah. That number, those numbers don't work.
I
mean, that's the, that's the downside of this direct consumer stuff. It's like the, the bundle works really, really well for a lot of people.
[00:39:04] Alex: don't you think, and this might be just a different topic, I get a sense that producing content for these things seems really expensive. you look at some YouTube channels that produce pretty good content and, they run so lean, how many people are surrounding One of these anchors when they're doing their things, there's like 12 people working in the background with them.
There's like seven people in the production room. There's 14 people, bring them coffee and doing all sorts of shit. an hour of content seems to be very expensive considering it is just like somebody talking about
[00:39:34] Brian: Yeah.
There's something between Twitter spaces and the CNN primetime.
[00:39:37] Alex: they keep saying like how expensive investigative journalism is, but usually these are like low paid people that they just sent to,
[00:39:43] Brian: Well, to be fair, the opinion programming at best, obviously they make a lot of money subsidizes the, the reporting stuff. There's, there's no money in
[00:39:52] Alex: supposedly. But like the opinion programming seems to be incredibly expensive to run. just like from a production standpoint, each one of these cameras could be replaced by an iPhone. Like,you know, if I came in Elon Musk, like,maybe, Cut the staff by 75%. Give everyone an iPhone.
Let I don't know who's left, but let Anderson Cooper give him a selfie stick and just let him do his thing.
[00:40:12] Brian: Yeah. My Fox News experience, they had one representative and the guys in the House of Representatives and he had on like AirPods and was like doing a Zoom, cuz I guess it was about like rural, internet. So I guess he couldn't get to a
studio.
[00:40:25] Alex: most of these things
[00:40:26] Troy: you guys, this is just happening, Alex, you make a great point. And really what's happening is the economics of media have to start to approach the economics of self-produced media, Like of the stuff that people make all day long, those models ultimately converge.
We are between eras right now and. There was a lot of surplus profit and essentially production money in the old era where cable bundles were attacks, where everybody bought them, where media brands had the stability of, a reliable access to a consumer. And were moving into this era, which has been going on for a long time, which is kind of, everything's on demand.
A lot of it's free. You're competing with people on YouTube. And then there's the new era, which is the one that you talked about where news is gonna, I think your quote was, our existing ways of consuming media is gonna feel like chopping wood. Like the next wave is, a kind of exponential change on the previous one.
everything is kind of personalized and delivered to you. And inside of that, the economics get really bad and you have to use a selfie stick.
[00:41:31] Brian: Okay, so the future of Media is the Selfie Stick.
[00:41:34] Troy: Yep.
[00:41:34] Brian: Good from there?
[00:41:35] Troy: you're already there. You should
[00:41:36] Brian: I know, this is great. I, I can't get the cost based any lower at this point. anything more on this or should we get onto Summer Good Products?
[00:41:43] Troy: Well, no, I want to do hate listening.
[00:41:45] Brian: hate listening. Okay.
[00:41:46] Alex: Hate listening. Okay, well, I thought you also wanted to talk about the H B O Max branding, but let's do that.
[00:41:51] Brian: my God,
[00:41:51] Troy: those are quick.
ones.
[00:41:52] Alex: they,
just wrap into each other
[00:41:54] Brian: All right. Let's go into, let's, let's start
with hate
[00:41:56] Troy: What, is your number one hate? Listen, let's go around the horn here.
[00:41:59] Alex: all in
[00:42:00] Brian: Okay. Why then, why
do
[00:42:01] Alex: because I like watching. genuinely always find something enjoyable as either these three billionaires. Beating up Jason Khans or Jason Khans, trying to be mean-spirited. And the only person he can pick at is Friedberg. Who's actually the one that's the most reasonable out of all them.
[00:42:17] Troy: He threatened to quit this week
[00:42:18] Alex: yeah, or, just them, like, how, confident in their ignorance they can be. I always found that fascinating,
[00:42:24] Brian: but let me ask you this. What is, what do you get out of the hate? Listen, I think we all have hate follows, hate, listens. I try to be very, What, what do the marketers say choiceful about them? Because I don't want it to be, first of all, you always wanna punch up, not punch down,
[00:42:38] Alex: Hmm.
[00:42:38] Brian: I always listen to people that I would feel I am punching up to. I can't watch, people flailing that I feel are in trouble, so therefore that makes it really easier. I don't like these fucks, most of them. part of it is I like 20% of it. I think they're all intelligent in certain parts of it, but they veer off, they, they really suffer from that thing.
[00:42:56] Alex: It's I'm good at business, so I am now a heart surgeon I understand everything that's happening with Ukraine. Listen to me. I launched a SAS company. so I find that is enough, like there, and also it kind of gives me, a little bit of an update of what's happening in the market because a lot of the money people, a lot of the capital allocators listen to it and they talk about, about that stuff.
I also find it kind of amusing how capital allocators talk about their stuff like a art skill. While most, most of the time it's just like putting chips on a number in roulette. Hey, watch me raise some money for my next venture guys.
[00:43:27] Brian: what I find interesting about is like, until we had a, surplus to the point of infinity media, I don't think, hate listens or hate reads and stuff really existed as much, but it was just because we have so much of it that this is now, none of us, I think growing up would've watched a TV program that we totally hated or something.
But I think we used to have a, joke in the newsroom about stories that were, I was like, oh, this is gonna get a ton of hate shares. and like the ideal story would have a bunch of hate.
[00:43:56] Alex: on those ads.
[00:43:57] Brian: Well, they would have a bunch of hate shares, but they would also have very positive shares.
And those were like the ideal stories. for instance, we used to do this day in the life, at, this fashion brand we had. And they were always bullshit. They were complete bullshit. Every single person was getting up at five o'clock to do like meditation for 45 minutes and then care for animals and all this stuff.
And it was just utterly bullshit. and it was loathsome bullshit. But there was a lot of people in that industry who found it endlessly. interesting. And then there was just as many people who found it completely loads some bullshit. And so that's the ideal,
[00:44:29] Troy: Yeah, but the, the the definition of a hate listen is there's gotta be something in it. Not just to hate but if it's just hate, you won't listen to
[00:44:36] Alex: Yeah, exactly. There's
[00:44:37] Troy: it. the right, it's like I hate listen to pivot, and it's becoming easier to hate listen to it because it's so indulgent. And when those guys sort of got increasingly famous and when Scott decided that his brand was connected to Dad jokes and being a buffoon and shit, it became, it's still tolerable, I suppose, cuz there's lots of good stuff on there.
And I kind of like Kara, although she's getting very, she's very angry. I can still listen to it, but it'll tip at some point.
[00:45:03] Alex: Yeah, I, I will, I will listen to that show. it's funny, I think they bring out. I don't know if they bring out the worst of each other. I think,it's really popular and I sometimes wonder why, because the actual, if you look at the value of what is in that, what did you think of, Galloway's comment on, the H B o Max rebrand Troy,
[00:45:19] Brian: Oh, it's a segue.
[00:45:20] Troy: I thought it was silly.
[00:45:21] Alex: he seems to be one of those marketing executives that's only been good at marketing his own brand. Ha. Has he had any other successes? I'm sure he's done other stuff.
[00:45:29] Troy: I mean, he sold a couple of
companies, you know, good. Yeah. that was a disaster. But, that was early e-commerce. There's reasons it didn't work.
Listen, I mean, if you want to talk about that one, Alex, you can't HBO o as the platform name is not a solution.
[00:45:43] Alex: So do you wanna, bring us up to speed? What happened?
Because I think it's an interesting topic.
[00:45:47] Troy: Scott, fancies himself, a brand strategist, which he arguably is, he thinks that HBO is one of the great brands of all time, which it is. it's been defined by years and years and years of extremely. Culturally important content. And, faced with the decision of having to do something with HBO Max as it was called when it was acquired by Discovery and became Warner Media, they had to do something with it cuz they wanted to dump all of their other content into a platform.
a platform business is a scale game. Discovery can't have, a whole bunch of different platforms. So they needed one platform instead of calling it HBO Max, the home of Dr. Pimple Popper, they called it Max. And Hbo O then became sort of a, producer and channel underneath of Max, cuz it's kind of a channelized system.
And Scott
was, yeah, they have Marvel underneath of it, et cetera. Right. And, and Nat Geo and stuff like that. Scott was incensed by this and he said, why would you throw away the greatest brand of all time? This, ZLA is an egomaniac and he, has no sense of how to manage, a very valuable brand and it's not a big deal.
I don't even think it's that interesting. It's just, I think, a bit of an oversight and Max is the right name for the service and, HBO o should live as a pure thing underneath of it.
[00:47:10] Brian: I
don't see why this is so controversial.
[00:47:12] Troy: I don't either
[00:47:12] Brian: yeah, it's a channel. Disney is different, If Disney owned Vice, vice as a channel of Disney Plus doesn't really work, if they did go through that buy, but like this, yeah, why not Dr. Pimple Popper, everyone brings up Dr.
Pimple Popper. What
[00:47:25] Alex: I mean, what we're saying is like they need to consolidate these things into apps and making HBO the master brand for this made no sense. They would've actually completely destroyed that brand. The same way actually HBO Max did, because they had too much stuff under there.
that was the right call. I think we're gonna see more and more of that happening, hopefully less apps, but at the end of the day, it's just apps that have more mini apps in them, just more content in them. It just becomes harder to use, I think,
[00:47:49] Troy: Would you rather be an app or a widget?
[00:47:51] Brian: I'd rather be a widget.
[00:47:52] Alex: I mean, a widget, you're always there.
[00:47:54] Brian: aspire to be a widget.
[00:47:55] Troy: Would you rather be an app, an os, a programming language, or a widget?
[00:48:00] Alex: I know s sounds exhausting.
[00:48:03] Troy: Okay.
[00:48:03] Alex: Yeah. What's your hate listen Brian, and then we can move to good product? Or is that the same
[00:48:08] Brian: Mine is monocle mostly cuz it's, it's endlessly pretentious and I can't understand its business model, but I actually, I appreciate it because they do, the Monocle Sunday, they did an update on, Slovenia is getting like a new airline, Andrea, they're trying to, and they're gonna be flying to like Scopia and Pristina and a few to Munich and Frankfurt and then they like update you on the Helsinki book fair and various other things.
And there's all this stuff going on in the world and I just love it. hate it, but I love it because I'm like, I really appreciate people who go off into their own corner and just Like Schroeder is? Yeah. Basically like Schroeder is like my spirit animal of the peanuts.
And like he's wearing his VR headset and he's just banging away on his keys. He doesn't even know that the black key is just painted on. And that's how I feel about Monocle. That's why I like it,
[00:48:56] Troy: You know, that's coming to, it's coming to the iWatch, the, the Peanuts characters.
[00:49:01] Alex: Snoopy,
[00:49:01] Brian: they
great? I, I went Schroeder. Is he Schrader? Is he Schrader in Mepa? I don't know.
[00:49:07] Alex: I don't know. Don't remember. Although it's not called peanuts, it's called Snoopy anywhere else. And I noticed that Apple, has gotten all the, peanuts content and they actually call it snoopy presents.
[00:49:17] Brian: Oh really?
[00:49:18] Alex: Yeah,
[00:49:18] Troy: Hmm,
[00:49:19] Brian: You know what, Kermit Frog is in Serbian Chavez Counter meat. All right, let's go on
[00:49:24] Alex: That's also, that's, isn't that also the name of the Bad Guy and the next Mission Impossible.
[00:49:28] Brian: Jobz Ke meat. know.
[00:49:30] Alex: have a lot of Serbian friends and Serbs have been having a, good run at playing bad guys. But now I've noticed there's more and more French guys
that
play bad guys
[00:49:37] Brian: they got a good guy with
[00:49:38] Alex: are definitely gonna
[00:49:39] Brian: Yoic is a good guy. And, he's from Sambo. He's not a big city guy. he's gonna win a
[00:49:44] Alex: I
think we need more,Dutch or Belgians.
[00:49:46] Brian: Belgian bad guys.
[00:49:47] Alex: Belgians would be good, but specifically Flemish
[00:49:51] Troy: what about Canadian
[00:49:52] Brian: Sean, Claude Von
[00:49:53] Alex: Canadian bad guys
[00:49:54] Brian: John Claude Vdo is, is a, is a Bel bag guy.
[00:49:57] Alex: Oh, he is a bad guy. That's true. In one of the movies.
[00:49:59] Troy:
[00:49:59] Brian: by the way, do you think we have any, i we do have hate listens. I hope you know that
[00:50:03] Alex: Oh, for sure. I mean, I bring in probably like 80% of those.
[00:50:07] Brian: you hate listen to us,
set up a hotmail
and send, send me a
[00:50:11] Troy: have you got us some mail from, from hate listeners?
[00:50:15] Brian: but I just know that anytime you do anything, particularly if it has any sort of personality to it, that's why I don't view hate listens. I don't feel guilty necessarily about it. Cuz in some ways,they've resonated in some way because if you're just like milk test and ignored,you talk about pivot, I don't have as stronger feelings as you do.
they make their personalities be very sharp for a reason. And in some ways that's just, part of the business in some ways is being somewhat divisive and not being for everyone,
[00:50:42] Troy: I give, all in six to nine months before it implodes. Freeberg is
gonna
quit. Yeah. David Sack is gonna get so annoyed with Jason Kell Kenis that he's gonna leave the podcast.
[00:50:53] Brian: or become some ambassador or like maybe our Admiral of the Joint Chiefs or whichever like
I know. Maybe, maybe he'll be Trump's ambassador to, Slovenia who can
[00:51:02] Alex: I just got a, a news update that, Taylor Swift, swallowed a bug on stage. Just wanted to share
[00:51:08] Brian: Okay.
[00:51:08] Troy: Wow. Shrimps his bugs.
[00:51:10] Good product
[00:51:11] Brian: let's talk about good product. I wanted to do something different for good product too, like a summer editions,
[00:51:16] Troy: What is happening, just to be clear, is this is a hostile takeover of my segment.
[00:51:20] Brian: Yeah,
basically. I I'm trying to save you. I mean, you were like moving really deep into food stuffs
[00:51:27] Troy: what did I do last week?
[00:51:28] Brian: grain. You know what a good product is? Cereals and grains, raw material.
[00:51:33] Troy: week I, I think I did fig spray
[00:51:36] Brian: That's
[00:51:36] Troy: then.
[00:51:36] Brian: me off.
[00:51:37] Troy: Yeah, last week, I did a category of music and then I mentioned that I like it on Sirius xm and Alex called me old.
[00:51:44] Alex: It sounded like a monocle segment
[00:51:46] Brian: What's Sirius xo? They're, they actually have a radio program, a 24 hour radio. I love how anti they're against social media. They don't do any, they do newsletters. all about magazines, radio, and it's great. I love it, but I
hate it.
[00:52:02] Alex: Yeah.
[00:52:03] Brian: Okay. Good product. Troy, you wanna start off? Try to try to tie it into the summer.
I feel it. It's summer out
[00:52:08] Alex: I actually didn't bring a good product this week. I can make one up, but I mean, I really like Crocs in the summer. I like them in the winter too. Oh boy.
[00:52:17] Brian: For what? The ventilation.
Well, I have the sort of off-roading Crocs that have a strap at the back, Oh, right. We, we already saw these once.
[00:52:24] Troy: Right. So I'm not gonna, no, we absolutely haven't. I mean, there's good products all around me. This is a
great product.
[00:52:31] Alex: of that headset?
[00:52:32] Troy: This is a great product. This,
[00:52:34] Alex: The air
tag. I disagree. I disagree. D I cannot leave my house. Without my phone reminding me that I'm forgetting everything I own at my house, including the things I have with me,
like my AirPods,
[00:52:46] Troy: you can set that.
[00:52:47] Alex: or can I set it to ignore the fact that it's always wrong. It is a terrible product. It needs to be always right, and it is very often wrong.
[00:52:54] Brian: Okay, I'm gonna follow the brief. My good product is those claw games, on, usually you find 'em on boardwalks, but also in arcades. I found my claw game in a Walmart, in Drescher or Horsham, maybe Pennsylvania, which was fascinating. I don't go to Walmart, Alexa. I live in New York City, and anytime I do go to Walmart, it's, pretty fascinating for me.
I didn't know that they, you could get a, eye exam there and stuff by guns
too, obviously, but I had no idea that it
[00:53:20] Alex: you can buy guns there too. Once your eyes are good, you know you can buy a
[00:53:23] Brian: yeah.
really liked the claw game and I like boardwalk games and I think that, we'll be losing something as a culture if we lose, rigged boardwalk games that are really frustrating to try to win, like stuffed animal that you don't want.
[00:53:36] Alex: That's why we have, programmatic advertising for though, isn't it? Because how many tests do I see an ad? You could be a winner. Seems like the same thing. Seems like,browsing on the internet. Like it's pressing a button and the claw and tries to grab something and sometimes it's nothing and sometimes it's a piece of
[00:53:51] Brian: Yeah. Well the, the thing with the claw is the plushies are not very plush because it would be easier to grab them with the claw if they were actually as, they should be as stuffed animals, but they make them like rock hard and so you're, not going to, you're not gonna get them good.
They
gotta manage the
[00:54:07] Alex: I, just think it's like a way of teaching kids about the disappointment that life is about
[00:54:11] Brian: I, I grew up going to the shore, outside of Philadelphia. and Wildwood is one shore town that was a little bit south of where where we used to go. but it's a little cheesy. They got like a true boardwalk and they got the games and the rides And there was a lawsuit against one of the main operators of the games on the boardwalk because he was defrauding customers by having the papa shot and stuff like this be actually like rigged against like,over-inflating like basketballs and making the hoops somewhat smaller, but I thought this was
[00:54:44] Troy: was exciting.
[00:54:45] Brian: I'm like, that's fraud. Have these people seen programmatic advertising?
[00:54:48] Troy: if you want to do the, add of the week from programmatic advertising, it'd be the one I shared in the thread, which was, it's a illustration of a woman, with a cloud, coming out of her ass. And it's four signs of dying liver
and it bracket. write these down.
And it's from the Esteemed Liver Renew Company?
[00:55:09] Alex: that seems to me like it's a tabula situation, right?
[00:55:12] Troy: well, it was on the New York Post,
[00:55:14] Brian: I don't know who
asked
[00:55:15] Troy: also is a good product.
[00:55:16] Brian: Near post's a great product. Should have been, it should have been way bigger than it is, but that's my thing.
[00:55:21] Troy: Yeah.
[00:55:22] Alex: isn't that what all media companies say about themselves
[00:55:24] Brian: No, but they had, if you look, if you look at the Daily Mail and what Daily Mail has done, which I think is pretty impressive. I think that the, the Post had that for the us the US is a far bigger market.
[00:55:35] Alex: yeah.
[00:55:35] Brian: they let Daily Mail come in and, establish itself.
[00:55:37] Alex: Well, yeah. That's a sad, sad
state of affairs.
[00:55:40] Brian: could have owned that stuff.
[00:55:42] Alex: Yeah, exactly.
[00:55:43] Troy: So to review, you took my segment. And you brought the Carnival claw game to the table. A
game that, that's rigged. A rigged game. But it's in its rigging that it is fun, right? Because it's so hard to win.
[00:55:57] Brian: Yes.
[00:55:57] Troy: Is that, is that what you're saying?
[00:55:59] Brian: Yes. And it's a
[00:55:59] Troy: a metaphor
[00:56:00] Brian: for media.
[00:56:02] Troy: And it's a metaphor.
[00:56:03] Brian: A wild fan. This business, the game is rigged, but eh, it's kind of fun.
[00:56:07] Troy: right. And if I was to indulge you in some of the things I really like Brian, like whether it was, audio stuff or bicycles or,
espresso equipment.
[00:56:16] Brian: It's all very branded.
I get it.
[00:56:18] Troy: roll your eyes and you'd say bring back the fig.
[00:56:21] Brian: Bring back. All right. Do you have some sort of high-end product that
[00:56:24] Alex: it for next week. Now, I think we've, we've given enough free content to people.
we're not paid by advertisers here. This is all free content. And so what we ask of people is that they,go and tell their friends and write
Even bad reviews, honestly, like even if you hate listen to us just write a bad review,
[00:56:42] Troy: Yeah,
let's get
[00:56:43] Alex: want to know that people care.
[00:56:44] Troy: I don't even know what I'm gonna say anymore. is this going? Is this going? Okay. Is this, is this podcast going? Okay? Should we stop?
[00:56:50] Alex: Just making the podcast altogether.
[00:56:52] Troy: I mean, it brings me some joy, but do we need to get guests on here because I'm getting sick of
[00:56:57] Alex: Well look. Okay. Okay. This is the la this is the last 60 days where like up 44% in the United States. We're up 70% in the uk. We're up 92% in Australia. We're up 44% in Germany. And we're down 6% in Canada, Troy.
[00:57:14] Brian: Ah, fuck.
[00:57:15] Troy: hilarious. Is that true?
[00:57:17] Alex: Yeah, that is a hundred percent true. Those are the, the listener stats. These are stats straight from Apple. So I don't know what the fuck you're doing, you know, like everyone in Regina, right? Can't you bring them in?
[00:57:27] Brian: Exactly.
[00:57:28] Troy: maybe it was because I said search it up.
[00:57:30] Alex: Maybe? You said search it up?
[00:57:31] Brian: sensitive.
[00:57:32] Alex: well anyway, we just need more Canadians and more, reviews.
leave a comment and, share your thoughts.
[00:57:38] Troy: I'm going to the south of France in three days, Well, enjoy yourself in Monica. Alex, are we, are we doing a podcast next week?
[00:57:43] Alex: you could record one and just do it. You two see how that works out.
[00:57:46] Brian: We could have a guest
[00:57:47] Alex: find a guest to replace me. That's good.
[00:57:50] Troy: maybe you might need to get rid of me if you wanna sell ads.
[00:57:52] Brian: I don't think that's true. I think the very brave, sponsors,
advertisers in our audience
[00:57:57] Alex: Come at me.
[00:57:58] Brian: not,
[00:57:58] Alex: bring your checkbooks.
[00:58:00] Brian: not, will
[00:58:01] Alex: Try me.
[00:58:04] Brian:


PVA S1E40
PVA S1E40
[00:00:00] Cold Open
[00:00:00] Troy: we haven't caught up in a while. It's nice to, to have, Alex here. How's your newsletter going? Your last newsletter was extraordinarily, extraordinarily good. It was
[00:00:08] Brian: Oh, really? I didn't have, I didn't have any idea what I was gonna
[00:00:11] Troy: Well, I, think I called you when you were cooking it in
the, you know, your
[00:00:15] Brian: in the lab.
[00:00:16] Troy: Yeah. And then it came out and I was like, this is pretty good.
[00:00:19] Brian: Yeah. In the content lab. I go into the content lab. I get out my, buns and burners get to work. well thank you.
I really appreciate that.
[00:00:26] Troy: Yeah. I'm a big fan, big fan.
[00:00:29] Brian: Thanks,
[00:00:29] Welcome
[00:00:52] Brian: Welcome to People versus Algorithms, where each week would affect patterns in media, technology, and culture. Ideally to help you connect the dots as you navigate the head spinning changes that seem to happen most weeks. My name is Brian Marcy of the rebooting. This week I'm joined not only by Troy Young, longtime media executive and investor and author of the People Versus Algorithms newsletter.
Alex Schleifer, our third partner on this podcast, is currently under suspension after he criticized advertising one too many times. I'm kidding. Alex is on vacation. So without Alex, Troy and I decided to have a Freeform Media Business Talk episode. The themes of this conversation will likely be familiar to many listeners, at least they were to me.
It's that the old levers in the media business are simply not working anymore. Media has never been an easy business, but right now, so many things that were, if not home runs solid doubles for the businesses aren't working. People are missing numbers and it's against a fairly resilient economy. So when publishers are putting up revenue to clients, but ad holding companies are seeing growth, there's a deeper reason than the normal gyrations of the ad market.
Some of these challenges feel, if not insurmountable. Far more challenging. Than just a matter of waiting out a bad market and doing better on execution, we consider the divergent pass taken by the New York Times and cnn. The Times is held up as perhaps the bi biggest success case of a legacy media brand reorienting its business for a new era.
It's shed non-core assets and doubled down on journalism as a DTC product soon to be surrounded by adjacent offerings in areas like food games and sports. This is a far cry from the financial crisis. When some were questioning whether the New York Times would go bankrupt, and we contrast that with the travails of cnn, which is in the early days of navigating a path of change as the subsidies of the cable bundle expose weaknesses of its model.
That's been very lucrative for a very long time, and after all, CNN still generates some 750 million a year in cash flow. The tenure of Chris Lick. Typically gets overcovered, but as Troy points out, what was the better strategy, what lane should lick, and his boss, David Zaslav, have steered the brand as it faces the secular decline of cable news programming.
The licked autopsies will move on from the personnel and political matters. To the more profound business challenges confronting whoever leads CNN and other legacy media companies as life is about to get much, much more difficult. As always, send in your feedback. My email is brian rebooting.com and please leave us a rating and review on Apple or Spotify or wherever you get this podcast.
Hope you enjoy the episode.
[00:03:22] Welcome end
[00:03:23] Brian: to me, selling something the first time is the hardest part. And then, once like people see it and cuz we have a amazing group of people who are coming to three days of programming at the Curve Cafe, it's it's so much more repeatable.
And also people see the thing and they're like, oh, I want one of those. I'm planning on doing the same thing for every tent pole event, just a different version of it, because the budgets are already there for it. And for Cannes, some companies, this is by far their biggest marketing expense of the year, and a lot of them are,
[00:03:52] Troy: So the budgets are here, the, the behaviors are there and they just need an activation partner, and you can be that partner. Yeah. the good news is not only are you lean, but. It feels to me that you're on the right side of a transformation. I won't even sort of pass judgment on whether it's, good or bad, but I was just on a call that made me really wonder what's going on underneath of digital media and where it goes next.
Because there is a lot of the stuff that. Paid the bills that, got you to your revenue number. the hundreds and two hundreds and $300,000 insertion orders, in a larger media system that were, your website plus a bunch of other stuff, or creation plus social distribution, or even god forbid, video insertions for players that sit.
Awkwardly on webpages. there's a lot of pressure there right now, people are having a hard time hitting their numbers some of it's macro, some of it may be executional underneath. And then, I just would contrast it with anything that's kind of performance related or affiliate related.
It's doing, reasonably well. So you look at a company like that and you say, are we waiting for This revenue to come back or is something fundamentally shifted and therefore we have to change. when you change a digital media company, you, you don't just change your ad product and how you're selling it, it has to cascade through the whole system.
usually ends up meaning that you change what you're making. what your priorities are on different channels or what kind of content you're creating, the balance between text and video, where you're distributing it,the emphasis you're putting on, subscriptions or other types of, revenue productive content.
So I, I do think that this is pretty fundamental and if you're a business like. we've talked about bustle before, or you're a business like Vox or Hearst or Conde. you're feeling good if you're highly diversified and have a reasonable amount of subscription revenue, but inevitably you're more reliant on.
These types of activations that you're talking about, that you're doing at canne at scale, whether it's the biggest of the big, like a Met Ball or women in Hollywood for L or just any type of activation combined with a bunch of media tactics. That's what you're gonna have to do. And the thing that troubles me about that is that's fine, but it's a really f*cking grinding business.
[00:06:06] Brian: You wanna tell me about this, Troy?
[00:06:09] Troy: True.
[00:06:10] Brian: attention economy at the Career Cafe is, a passion project.
[00:06:13] Troy: it. Stop it.
[00:06:15] Cut cold open
[00:06:15] Brian: by the way, I should mention to everyone, Alex is not here this week because like he is on, are we allowed to say where he is vacationing or is that a,
[00:06:21] Troy: He's already said it. It's somewhere in Europe. He's in
[00:06:24] Brian: Europeans are very sensitive about privacy.
[00:06:26] Troy: Okay.
[00:06:27] Brian: I don't wanna offend him. He's in the south of France, which to me, I'm a little offended.
Alex, if you are listening, I'm a little offended because I too am gonna be in the south of France at the Curve Cafe and we're not meeting up. But I know that they're very jealous about
[00:06:41] Troy: Did you sell a volume of mentions?
Okay.
[00:06:45] Brian: it's deep partnership. I try to align with partners long term and I find it very effective because I want them to succeed and hopefully they want me to succeed.
[00:06:53] Troy: yeah. Good on Alex. He's having a break and it's worth just mentioning to any of the newer listeners that Alex was a reticent participant. At first, he said, I don't want to say anything.
[00:07:03] Brian: Well, now he's in the limelight. He's getting, I'm a little worried, Alex, you're listening. I'm a little worried. He's getting too sensitive to the people who are like you to advertising. Just take, don't listen to him. Don't listen to him. need to hear truth.
I'm going to can, and I'm going to not hear the truth for a week and trust me. The people there need to hear the truth
[00:07:21] Troy: Yeah, but so, so what's going on folks, is that Alex is kind of blustery on the podcast, including saying things like, fuck you by my shit as the universal brand tagline. Was that his cl That was his line, yeah. But then more reflective, in the text thread afterwards, oh, I'll stop, I'll be. More accommodating to different points of view and advertising and stuff.
the thing is, is he's not, it's coming from a good place. He's not trying to piss anybody off. I think it's a really important voice on this podcast to be honest, because first of all, he's really, he's really smart and he is deep in the internets Is a committed, youthful user of all, communication and media platforms.
And so I liken his, behaviors to a much younger person. but his voice on the advertising front, I think, us a story about how hard it is to really make compelling advertising in a demand era. where you can access any information you want, where you're in control.
And this has been a long, long story In the internet, but we kind of avoided the hard truth by creating, we just kept moving, we kept, we created banners and then we created content marketing, and then we created affiliated, and then we created, programmatic and
we
just all
of, yeah, I mean all of popups Rich.
I missed a lot.
[00:08:41] Brian: eye blaster.
[00:08:42] Troy: Yeah. And along the way, lots of, lots of people made millions, tens of millions, hundreds of millions of dollars, Because whenever
[00:08:49] Brian: they're the ones writing in are like,
[00:08:52] Outro cut
[00:08:52] Troy: this is the thing, like just never overthink it. the enterprising and relentless. Harry Carman created a, big business just by sweeping up inventory across major publishers and putting a little hotdog at the bottom of mobile websites, a hotdog, I mean like a little banner that sticks to the bottom.
[00:09:10] Brian: Yeah. But the hotdog comes out, it's not like a standard
[00:09:12] Troy: Yeah. An animated hot dog.
[00:09:14] Brian: Yeah.
[00:09:14] Troy: Yeah. Nice One.
[00:09:15] Brian: There's a world for that. But I wanna get back to what you're, you're talking about, about things, not, because I think one of the themes in this podcast is, at least that I've picked up on at least, is that the old levers are not working as well as they should.
And so, like you were saying, the question ends up being, are we just not operating this correctly? Is this just a blip? Because the overall economy is. Not in recession. The advertising economy on the, the sort of top line, if you, look at the advertising holding company, results is not in recession.
Tell that to publishers. Tell them that it's not in recession what is the old line of a recession? it's not a recession. If your neighbor loses his job, it is a recession if you lose your job, publishers are in a recession right now. And I think the big question ends up being is speaking broadly?
do they need to completely overhaul their models and can they in some ways,
[00:10:05] Troy: I've been interested in this thing this week. if you, we, you'll indulge me around this change. I mean, there's the publishers needing to change what they're selling to the marketplace and, It's felt like we never really had product market fit for a long time.
To be honest, it felt like Google and Facebook had product market fit and publishers had to buy a lot of lunches.
[00:10:25] Brian: Hmm.
[00:10:26] Troy: and programmatic arguably at least gave you an opportunity to sell your product without having to buy lunch, except that it meant that you were gonna get one-tenth of the yield that you would've got if you had bought lunch.
So it was a, kind of a nasty trade off. You'd sell all your impressions, but you'd sell them at a far lower cost. one thing that, that's just been on and, and I don't think I have an answer. to what you do do. But I have been thinking about this Chris Licked CNN thing, after, the media community in Puck in particular, fed on Chris Licht like hungry piranhas I was left wondering, and everybody kind of stood at the outside and said, well, he was bad at change and he was dabbling with the morning show and he was dabbling with primetime and he didn't understand how to work with talent and he had no master plan for the company and.
[00:11:14] Brian: his office was upstairs.
[00:11:15] Troy: He had his office upstairs and then he moved it down and he kept saying that, that he was gonna be protected and they had a long horizon and all that. Meanwhile, up 13 months later, it came to an end, but underneath of it all, what kept bothering me is what would you do?
What would I do? How do you change that company? How hard is it to change that company because the hardest part of the change isn't even here yet. So yeah, ratings are down in primetime. The number of people that are watching Sienna is shockingly small. but I think has about a billion dollar, probably less, eight.
Eight, maybe eight or 900 million operating budget. it's hard to tell exactly what the numbers are with CNN because it lives inside of, Warner discover's, public filings and it's not broken out, but it's a couple billion dollar business and it makes almost a billion dollars in ebitda.
Brian.
Okay, so, it's immensely profitable, not unlike many other cable companies that had the benefit of dual revenue streams a bunch of revenue that just came in at the beginning of the year from all years, 70
to
[00:12:17] Brian: I mean, it's unearned. Right. I mean, it's almost you're sort of cosy. It's like unearned distribution and unearned, revenue just like shows up.
[00:12:23] Troy: It doesn't correlate to how many people are watching.
[00:12:26] Brian: Yeah, that's what I mean. It's unearned. You don't have to go out and fight for every day, and I, the future is you have to go out and fight
like every
day.
[00:12:32] Troy: Right, So let's say that of the 2 billion, somewhere around probably north of a billion of it is ad revenue. Ad revenue is down very significantly because it is dependent on. on ratings. but the company after the CNN Plus write-off this year is speculated to make 750 million.
Otherwise, it would've made closer to a billion. Now, I thought, okay, so your primary distribution mechanism is. Coming to an end, you have a website. The website doesn't probably make that much money, and it's certainly not gonna get even close. There isn't a website on the planet other than, Facebook and Google that makes that kind of money, you have to replace this other gusher, which came with, obviously it's a linear television network, a huge brand, a wonderful,
subscription relationship contrasted with another major news brand, the New York Times brand.
The New York Times is roughly the same size. It's 2.3 billion. You, I know this because it's public. it's 2.3 billion in revenue. give you a sense of where that money's coming from, it's fairly diversified.
It's print subs are a quarter of it, 25%. Digital subs are 42%. Advertising is another quarter, 23%, and the remaining 10% is sundry items like affiliate licensing, commercial printing deals, et cetera. in 22, made 346 million in operating profits. So roughly a third of what C N N made. That was up year over year by around, 11% on, like I said, 2.3 billion in revenue.
Now, you don't know what CNN is worth, as a company, because like I said, it's not an independent financial entity. But you're looking at the New York Times, you're like, yeah, these guys got a big future. They've created a bunch of new stuff that's driving their, 10 million subscribers that are dtc.
They own those subscribers. They have, obviously an enviable newsfeed. They have sports, they have cooking, they have games, they have, the wire cutter, they have affiliate. it's a business that has pivoted to a new world successfully. It's a news business that moved from being. One thing, A paper business to a digital thing, and they're gonna get through it where it's not clear to me that CNN is gonna get through it.
[00:14:45] Brian: Yeah,
[00:14:45] Troy: why is the question, why
[00:14:47] Brian: Well, I think it's a couple of things. one of the things we were talking about, it's like you have to figure out what lane you're gonna play in. do you have the assets and do you have a pathway to be in the DTC lane? Everyone wants to be in the DTC lane, and that's why we had all these random streaming channels that we didn't need.
Because this. Industry, just everyone goes in one direction and that, is an enviable one. But there's other sort of lanes you can play you can harvest the brand, I guess for, it's brand equity. We see that happening to a lot of magazine brands that become fronts for affiliate businesses.
there is a commerce lane, I don't know. What are the lanes that you would, Think of when, because there's, there's production lane.
[00:15:23] Troy: there's the harvest lane, which just means that you're gonna run it lean, take all the profits out and admit that it's becoming probably, an empty shell of a brand. There's the investment lane, which is, well, we're going through a profound distribution shift. We are gonna invest behind that.
We're gonna create CNN Plus, we're gonna go dtc. We're gonna change the nature of our content. We're gonna make more lifestyle news content. We're gonna make documentary content, we're gonna be a primary consumer relationship in this new landscape. Those are two obviously. And I guess the third is kind of try to do both and you fuck it up.
I don't know. the third is what most people pick. And it usually doesn't work. But,I think this why question is interesting, Brian. So for example, one of the reasons has got to be. CNN has an unrealistic profit expectation to live in a new world.
So you have to live through a period where you're going from having 50% margins to having 20% margins. Someone is gonna be unhappy.
[00:16:24] Brian: but this is the point, I think the a critical difference is the New York Times was in Hawk to Carlos Slim. They had a near death experience. And when you have near death experiences, you gotta change stuff. a reason Bill Clinton is not needing donuts anymore.
It's cuz he nearly died. I think he would still be eating donuts if it was up to him. you know, the guy's now like a total vegan, he weighs I don't know, 145 pounds. CNN didn't have that it's easy to coast, in a lot of these models. And for all of the travails, like I see it up close sometimes when I deal with the network people, there's so many people in these organizations that you talk about tack being bloated?
I mean,
[00:16:59] Troy: the alignment between old distribution and new distribution at a place like the New York Times is better. Than it is at cnn. So at New York Times, you can write an article, you can do
journalism, and you can move it between channels pretty easily. And so it, it feels like you're just doing the same thing in a different, distribution paradigm.
Your range of offerings like cooking, you already do lifestyle well, you've already got the crossword, And then they also make, in fairness to that team, make good acquisitions. Like wire cutter was a good acquisitions. Maybe the athletic turns out to be a good acquisition and they have a brand that can stand alone to some extent as an authority in liberal media.
they are one of one in that category. Whereas cnn, they got this profit burden. They have a product that's really expensive to manufacture or at least has a history of being expensive to manufacture. The digital thing is a different kind of product that you have to learn to manufacture.
That takes different skills cuz you're moving from video to text. and they've never really had to, fight for subscriptions. Because they just got the money handed to them. it's just a harder company to change. And along that change route, that pathway, you have to support two very different businesses.
So you got two news brands in the meat grinder machine of the future where everybody does a little bit of text and a little bit of video and a little bit of commerce and a little bit of gaming. they're the same company. One is gonna survive, the other one's not. Or there's gonna be profound, nasty, horrible gyrations as it figures out its
[00:18:31] Brian: Yeah. It is interesting though just to stick on the New York Times for a minute because I think it gets a lot of plot. Its, and, and mostly, it deserves them for how it's reoriented its business. one thing it hasn't really done is capture the future of the internet, which is clearly video. they really don't have an compelling video operation
[00:18:51] Troy: Is it the future of the internet
[00:18:53] Brian: Well, I, it seems to me that video is gonna be the overwhelming majority of content that is,
[00:19:00] Troy: And a generation will demand it. Reference me, sending Alex, our younger generational participant, a link to the New York Times, and he sends me back a response that says, summarize, please
not even please just summarize. Yeah.
[00:19:15] Brian: I just think it's, interesting and if it were to look for, like an acquisition, I wonder why the New York Times, I mean, look, the New York Times owned TV stations before and it, it had a really weird, I mean, it owned what is now the guts of dot dash Meredith.
It had a bunch of different types of asset. It chose to slim down and really focus on its core journalistic expertise, and that clearly paid off. I would think that for it to truly grow to its potential that it will eventually need to,
[00:19:42] Troy: Video.
Right. so Brian, if I was to just get you to respond to this question, just a quick reaction, I wonder how you would respond.
[00:19:52] Brian: Let's find out.
[00:19:53] Troy: Companies,
either traditional media companies or newfangled ones, digital media companies that have invested productively in video name them.
[00:20:02] Brian: you mean that or not? Like video
native.
[00:20:04] Troy: Well, how about that? Did some kind of video pivot or video investment or made a commitment to video and where they can now stand back and say, thank Christ we did this. We're making lots of money. We have a different kind of business now. This is great.
[00:20:18] Brian: Okay, this is totally from the outside and I didn't prepare
[00:20:21] Troy: Besides Bar Stool,
[00:20:22] Brian: time, time studios.
[00:20:24] Troy: it's a good one.
Kind of, does it make money?
[00:20:26] Brian: and this is TV Day. I dunno, but that's the same I'm saying from the outside. I mean, you don't think Conde Na asset, like the video assets of Conde Nast, make it a more valuable company now than it was 10 years ago.
[00:20:38] Troy: well, I mean, admire much of what they've done. I mean, if you were to look at it on a financial basis, you would definitely see no. Because they lost a huge amount of money in pursuing a video strategy that had no kind of permanent distribution underneath of it, which is always the problem with video.
So then you become, yeah. have they had television shows made? Yes. they've been producers or executive producers on a number of films, and they've done reasonably well creating, decent YouTube channels. I don't think any of those are, real replacements for the, kind of economic power, that existed before when it was a print business.
[00:21:15] Brian: So are you advocating then for the text branch and stay in their lanes?
not against it.
[00:21:20] Troy: I wish that was the case. I made video investments, and was always,felt like that that money was going to be part of a learning process and a process to develop things like YouTube channels or our positions on TikTok or wherever. But I was never really counting on it as being profitable.
And so you have to be making money somewhere else. Yes. Is the answer. And yeah, we, we too had a couple of TV shows and stuff like that, but it was a small amount of money and unreliable. So am I advocating for making other stuff? I don't think that's what I'm saying. I'm saying I'm a future. Where your business is dependent on video is troubling.
For many publishers, at worst, it looks like someone like Refinery 29 that put a bunch of money in a video and none of it paid off. I actually think that the one you thought might have been successful at it was vice. Except that the dysfunction in the company got the best of them.
And even though they did have a profitable television station and a production company, and had a reputation for creating good video content, the business is now in bankruptcy.
[00:22:20] Brian: I, think it's gonna be hard to sort of unwind. How much of it was that pivot to video and how much of it was just, poor management and also we just a really strange financial structure.
[00:22:30] Troy: Right. Yeah. maybe some of our listeners, the more astute ones can help me understand that better you. The question I suppose is what would you do if you were running c n N? What would you do?
[00:22:41] Brian: I think the hard part with the licked stuff and Semi four had a really, interesting chart of the, I dunno if you saw it in the newsletter last night. Plotted the viewership of different, cable news, outlets along with how many press mentions that the network executives were in the articles in the last 18 months compared to viewership. And Chris Lick was off the charts with 60,000 article mentions. and at the bottom of the chart, as far as how many people actually watched c, cnn, so for some reason CNN n is.
Overcovered, that's to be clear. but I think we've moved on with that story
[00:23:15] Troy: Overcovered. I mean, this is the most profound case of media insiders, Schoen Freud I've ever seen. It's nasty. It's nasty.
[00:23:23] Brian: Well, yeah. I mean it's got all kinds of back stories. It's got Jeff Zer and stuff like this. It's
[00:23:28] Troy: Yeah, but there's also, there's something else at play here, and what it is, is the puck formula is going deep on one topic and going after it and getting the inside scoop. And they decided that CNN was the story they kept on giving. they were incredibly well sourced and they attacked.
[00:23:45] Brian: I mean,
[00:23:45] Troy: They made it They made it. They made it a story.
[00:23:48] Brian: Okay. Is it any different than all things Dee with Yahoo and Marissa Air? Kara Swisher was like in the, air ducks or whatever, at yahoo. you couldn't go like a day without hearing about some Yahoo thing. Those days are gone.
I guess I don't know if Jim wants that. Does Jim want the daily coverage of what Jim Lanzone is doing at Yahoo?
[00:24:08] Troy: I don't, but I think the great irony is, the wonderful thing about ya, I dunno why you got me going on Yahoo, but Yahoo is way less dependent on search than most publishers. Because it's an ecosystem and it has finance and it has sport, and it has mail and it has a homepage, and as a result, a small percentage of the traffic that arrives there is search based.
And I think that on account of that, unless it's totally hijacked by changing behaviors around AI or something, that business is gonna just keep trucking, keep making, and it makes money. It's great.
[00:24:38] Brian: Yeah, I mean, it is kind of funny, there's a lot of businesses that. They get a lot of focus and attention and and then like people just presumed to be quote unquote dead or something like that. And they just, as you said, they keep trucking and those businesses end up looking a lot better than a lot of the other businesses that maybe get a lot more attention.
mostly just because the structure of the businesses, I mean, Yahoo structure. with having a lot of control over distribution is superior at this point.
[00:25:05] Troy: it's the story that is never emphasized enough in my opinion, and it's that you can do so much in media. You need content and distribution, but if you don't have one of 'em, I mean you always need both. But distribution's, the one that absolutely fundamentally, will contort you into knots if you don't have it.
[00:25:22] Brian: Yeah. So that is the second topic I wanted to talk to you about, which I don't think gets enough. Of an alarm bell, which is the possibility of the decline, if not death of evergreen content. Evergreen content is incredibly important to digital publishing operations. Everyone, I don't care what they're, they're doing on the front end, they have an SEO chop shop in the back looking to compete.
To get on page one of those Google search results and the beauty of evergreen content, correct me if I'm wrong, you pay for it once and then it's, you just keep making money off it. And that's magic. I mean, news content sucks. you've spent all this money to make it, and then just like it's value plummets and goes away like in a day.
[00:26:04] Troy: first, I would challenge you on, and you as a member of the publishing community should maybe not say chop shop because that
[00:26:10] Brian: Okay, whatever, intent-based
[00:26:13] Troy: you.there's a lot of good people out there making content that a answer people's questions about how to make the proper
[00:26:18] Brian: and repeating the recipe again and again and again. Yes, I get it. I
honor all labor, particularly all content, labor, as someone who works in the content minds. I
I feel you.
[00:26:28] Troy: Yes. Okay. Secondly,
[00:26:30] Brian: I'm that variety. Coffee doing my bit, so I get it.
[00:26:33] Troy: Yeah. yeah, I mean, it's the equivalent of rerun revenue, isn't it? It's like having friends in syndication. it's a terrific revenue source. I remember obsessing about story volume and how fast we were able to get on, some.
Cultural vibe or a news item or whatever and, the effect that being fast would have On your traffic. And then there's the sort of much more deliberate, systematic, strategic work of connecting a really good s e o person strategic s e o person to content creation against, what your brand brief ought to be getting that right.
Getting into position and having that stuff just pay dividend and it's amazing. one of the things that I've noticed, and actually maybe the reason why you think it's troubling, is I put chat GPT on my little system, tray on my phone, the amp. I use it quite a bit.
And one of the things that it's absolutely useless if you try to get current information, it uses its little web browser plugin and it's completely unsatisfying. You can see using it. Why having tidy. Faceted data sets is gonna be so important because, for example, if I wanted to find out what is New York Times revenue in 2022, how much of it was subscription, how much of it was advertising, all of that
that's the work I want someone to do for me. It sucks at that. But if I wanted to know, when was a song by e l o written. And, what studio was it recorded in and blah, blah, blah. Like it, it's killer at that.
[00:28:08] Brian: Yeah. Well the Penske Media, I'm sure is currently competing to be on page one of that. That's why I'm saying like it's gonna have a lot of impact Okay, leave side, the chop shop slang. SEO operations are very profitable and they're numerous. I like to just anytime anything is trendy, I just like to see who is really going for it on the SEO front.
[00:28:32] Troy: Well, this is ties back to our other discussion about this kind of existential moment Someone said to me yesterday that we are at, peak SERP content time, like it's over.
[00:28:42] Brian: can I take that for my newsletter title,
peak Service. No, that's not a good one, but go on. Sorry.
[00:28:46] Troy: Yeah, so, this inflection point is coming and anybody, I don't care what kind of, media you're creating, it's like the whole industry don't know where it's settled, Brian.
To be honest with you, whether you work in TV or you're dependent on the serp or you were a subscription publisher, maybe that's the most protected frontier. But the whole media is in, a period of more pressure, more change, more kind of uncertainty than I've just, that I've ever seen.
And it includes advertising.
[00:29:16] Brian: Yeah, that's why it's gonna be interesting just to tie it back to the final topic, which is, can. Because you're not going to can, but I'll be there all week. know, you have to sort of cut through the BS of, everything. Cause it's like a PR thing. But, I don't know.
I feel like you can tell some things about the overall direction of the industry and in Canada is just full of so many contradictions, I mean it's technically. A festival of creativity and stuff, but underneath it is really just a lot of like data brokers
doing
[00:29:45] Troy: kind more like a festival of expense accounts.
[00:29:47] Brian: That's really expensive counts. Yeah, I like that. there's more procurement people going there, so now like it's not only they try to like keep procurement, but now the procurement people are going there up close. So I think it's perfect because it's trying to bring the procurement people in, it more like they're part of it.
[00:30:04] Troy: Right. I remember one year when I was hanging out with some senior people that had influence, at a holding company, the kind of people that all of the. publishers, media companies and ad tech people wanna hustle. They're the best people to hang out with cuz the expense, accounts, flow most freely against their needs.
And, the Microsoft people had rented a yacht to take him to go see house that, Keith Richards. well, the, the host at the Wrong Stones recorded that album in, what's the album name? oh my God. it's Escape. You, you Don't Know These kinds of trivia.
[00:30:36] Brian: No.
[00:30:37] Troy: anyway, they recorded this album in the south of France.
I should know what it is. and you could probably look it up while I'm talking and he's like, I want to make a pilgrimage. Let's go there. The Microsoft guys are gonna get us a yacht. There'll be lunch and rose and all that stuff. And
[00:30:52] Brian: Villa.
[00:30:54] Troy: that's the name of the house.
[00:30:55] Brian: Yeah.
[00:30:55] Troy: And the album is called, what's the album called?
No Nok. What's it called? That's the name of what?
[00:31:01] Brian: oh, that's actually the name of the, the house.
[00:31:04] Troy: Yeah. And what album was recorded there, Brian?
[00:31:06] Brian: Mm. Rolling Stones. They lived there in 1971. Ran into legal problems.
Oh no. Keith Richards was trafficking cannabis.
[00:31:16] Troy: well,
[00:31:17] Brian: Exile on Main Street.
[00:31:18] Troy: That's it. Of course, yes. Exile Street was recorded, the guy I was with was like, I can't go. I got a meeting. You go, they need someone's name to put on the expense account. So there was like,
[00:31:27] Brian: Oh my God. That should be my role there. What am I doing?
[00:31:30] Troy: there was like four of us on the boat and I was absolutely of no economic value.
I mean, I was charming and It was fun. it was then that I, concluded that,media is a business of, obviously extreme marginal revenue over marginal cost. And crazy decisions get made as a result. Like going to San Japan, a helicopter and having literally celery and carrots for like,$300 ahead
[00:31:54] Brian: Yeah.
[00:31:55] Troy: Have you done
[00:31:55] Brian: Okay. No, I don't do any of that stuff. So there's like a canned pecking order that I think, people should, know. the funniest thing that I find is that the CMOs are celebrities at camp and so they're at the top. agency holding, okay, fine. they're below CMOs.
CMOs are the celebrities at Cannes and fly private
[00:32:14] Troy: the, the big ones, like if you're like Samsung or. Google or someone like that. Yeah.
[00:32:19] Brian: there's just like
[00:32:19] Troy: Unilever.
[00:32:20] Brian: influencer networks are flying, marketing people out on private jets and stuff It's like the amount of spending is, On some level kind of unconscionable. and I think it's particularly awkward whenever the economy is somewhat sideways, it gets super awkward because jobs are getting cut at home.
anything that takes place in the south of France is over the top and like luxurious, like beyond belief to some degree. so there is a disconnect of
[00:32:45] Troy: Except for the Airbnbs that are disgusting.
[00:32:47] Brian: What's that?
[00:32:48] Troy: The Airbnbs
are
gross. don't hold your breath.
[00:32:51] Brian: I'm staying in unfashionable part of town, so maybe that will help. well I gotta make up for the margin on this French taxi service that's charging me 2,500 bucks to take 20 people 10 kilometers in back. since coming out of my living expenses, What was I saying? But there's a pecking order that goes on it's the true media pecking order.
Really. It's because where, it's where the money starts at the absolute bottom is unfortunately where just the service from Iers. but that's okay.
[00:33:18] Troy: No, but you think that, are you really at the bottom? I don't think you're at the
bottom.
[00:33:21] Brian: I am.
[00:33:22] Troy: No. I You like to play this little game. You like to play
this premium economy game?
[00:33:27] Brian: I'm.
[00:33:27] Troy: No. Here's
why. You're not at the
bottom. No, you're not at the bottom because you have some influence and people like you also,
and, because you have, this media brand and sometimes you get the opportunity to find the conversation.
And so as a result, you're like, at the bottom is an ad tech seller and there's lots of them.
They sit below you.
[00:33:48] Brian: That's true. I mean, I'm not saying that's my ADX seller friends. I guess what I mean in that is, and I appreciate you saying that cuz I think one of the oddities of Canada I've always thought is that a lot of the brands we think of with a lot of cultural cachet in media are missing from there.
And if they are there, they're, they're there as service providers, like Vogue's presence. Incan is as a content marketing provider to Snap. Right. And that's the reality of this, of the industry. the data brokers have yachts. Vogue is a content agency.
[00:34:20] Troy: Right. And so they need to plug into someone who's going to make a material commitment in spend like Snap,
and they will plug into their fancy,
[00:34:30] Brian: Yeah, they do. They do like an art museum and all this and it's great. I love it. and there's so much like contradictory stuff. Open AI is gonna have some kind of art gallery thing there, and it's like, okay, well you're also threatening a lot of, the creative, the advances are
literally viewed as
[00:34:46] Troy: as our friend Jonathan Nelson said, this is the festival where we, what, what's the line we put down our arms?
[00:34:53] Brian: Yeah, we put down our arms for a week and pretend that we're not trying to kill each other the rest of the year. I enjoy the week. It's good to see people and all that kind of thing. I'm very excited for the events me doing with my friends at Curve, the Curve Cafe.
[00:35:07] Troy: Stop it. You know what? After all of these mentions, and I think this is, maybe a flaw with your ad product, I don't even know what that company does.
[00:35:14] Brian: Curve. I already explained it to you. They, they
have, well, they have ai, and so they can identify objects
within,
[00:35:21] Troy: ai. They're the
[00:35:22] Brian: they do, they, can identify objects within videos and match them up basically to databases. And so they turned that on. You remember when people were talking about hotspotting and
stuff that.
[00:35:33] Troy: That's enough.
[00:35:33] Brian: They're able to basically create shoppable video that actually works, and now they're doing it with an attention product. They can tell when people's attention falls off during, a video say like during an ad. And so then
you can
go and
[00:35:47] Troy: that's enough. Stop it.
[00:35:49] Brian: you asked. I'm
telling,
[00:35:51] Troy: I gotta tell you, that was a terrific organic mention that you made me do at the beginning of this podcast.
[00:35:56] Brian: I'm excited for it. also, I'm gonna be doing a podcast with our friend Neil Vogel. What should I
ask Neil, how he's gonna deal with this stuff?
[00:36:04] Troy: Neil's a great guy. Neil knows how to spin a tail cuz he was an investment banker for a long time. He,
[00:36:10] Brian: You called him full of shit.
[00:36:11] Troy: I think he thought this journey would be easier than it is,
[00:36:16] Brian: The journey of the taking on the Meredith properties.
[00:36:18] Troy: Yes.
Yeah. And remember, and Meredith had just taken over time, there's a lot of change to get everybody, aligned with the dot dash mission.
And so I would ask Neil, what have you encountered that you didn't think you would encounter? what are the things that are slowing you down? What do you wish you knew before you signed the check? what are the best things about the acquisition and what are the worst?
What would you, if you could magically change any part of it with a wand, what would you change?
[00:36:46] Brian: Oh, he's gonna say move faster.
[00:36:47] Troy: Well, let's not, maybe send him those questions. Yeah. Who else are you interviewing? You want some more questions?
[00:36:52] Brian: Yeah, I mean, that'd be awesome. Kirk McDonald, the group M North America CEO
[00:36:57] Troy: Yeah. There's lots for him.
[00:36:59] Brian: talk about ad spending, responsible media, that's their thing. I'm doing one with, who else? Christine Cook, global c
[00:37:05] Troy: From?
[00:37:05] Brian: Do you know her?
[00:37:06] Troy: I don't know her well. I know her. She's, that'll be fun.
[00:37:09] Brian: from your old shop, Lisa Howard,
I guess she's now, she came from the Times over to, Hearst.
[00:37:14] Troy: Cursed. Yeah.
[00:37:14] Brian: do you know the group Black people? Dennis and, Bon and Bao.
They must have Bon
Yeah, they're coming. We've got a, we've got a
[00:37:21] Troy: wow.
Wow. could I sponsor it?
[00:37:24] Brian: no cuz it's like curve
[00:37:26] Troy: Sodo?
[00:37:27] Brian: our,
[00:37:27] Troy: sole sponsor. You don't have any subordinate sponsors?
no Hmm.
[00:37:31] Brian: next year.
[00:37:31] Troy: Okay. So what are you most looking forward to at Ken?
[00:37:34] Brian: I mean, is it too selfish for me to say that I'm looking for a sport to the new attention economy at the Curve
Cafe?
[00:37:40] Troy: it. No, seriously, Brian,
let's
[00:37:42] Brian: I'm serious.
[00:37:42] Troy: the shit.
[00:37:43] Brian: I'm serious. It's
[00:37:44] Troy: no, but like, okay. Why don't you add,
[00:37:46] Brian: business.
[00:37:47] Troy: many, many times
and I
would say that,
[00:37:49] Brian: that I'm not trying to
[00:37:50] Troy: what about eating an omelet and reading a newspaper? What about an early morning swim? What about, getting drunk after it's all over with people that you like hanging out with?
What about smoking cigarettes?
[00:38:03] Brian: I'm not smoking any cigarettes. I'm too old for that. I'm looking forward to going I on Thursday, so I have three days of,
a lot of work that I really have to do and it's really important. then I have the thing to do with Neil too. I'm not saying that's not important, but it's less, it's less
stressful.
[00:38:18] Troy: did you make any swag,
[00:38:19] Brian: No, I didn't make, so anyway, I'm looking forward to Thursday evening that when it is fully finished, I will have finished three days of programming at the Curve Cafe. I will do the
cocktail party on Monday, the leaders' dinner at lab, in grass,
the
[00:38:35] Troy: Brian, you're, you're, taking advantage of our, of our audience right
[00:38:39] Brian: at the dash Villa Meredith Villa, and so I'm looking for it on Thursday.
When all of that is over and I just have one more newsletter As you would say, fart out in the morning I'm looking forward to going to dinner. We made a reservation for 10. We're just gonna pick up people along the way and just see like Thursday evening, at this place duplex, which is totally on the other end of Cannes, from the p that bay, you know, as you go out towards
and on, and I love it.
it's like the surf shack. it's very not the coset and the sun will be going down. You can sit outside. They've got a, it's a duplex. You can sit up top and it's like very chill. And the people who run it are really cool. I'm looking forward to that.
[00:39:20] Troy: that sounds good.
And then what after that are you going on vacation?
[00:39:24] Brian: I'm gonna stay around until, Thursday. Not sure where though. I
[00:39:27] Troy: And then back to
[00:39:28] Brian: you know, back to New York for July 4th weekend, I'm not gonna like rush back. I still have to work, but whatever. That's the solo life. there's no weeks off. You know, I haven't taken a week off since, Christmas.
[00:39:37] Troy: Yeah, I was worried about you a couple weeks ago, actually, early in the year. I was very worried about you.
[00:39:42] Brian: Since Christmas. That's a long
[00:39:43] Troy: Now, do you remember that one time when you and Alex and I got on a prep call and you got non-linear intense with us about how I think you were thinking we were wasting your time or taking advantage of you, and you were like, I gotta make money.
[00:39:56] Brian: Well, I do have to make money. I do. I don't, I don't regret that. What? No, I do.
[00:40:00] Troy: I'm
[00:40:00] Brian: Two rich guys. I was paying the production cost. No way.
[00:40:04] Troy: Oh,
[00:40:05] Brian: When I'm rich, I will happily take them. Okay. I really wanna be
[00:40:08] Troy: You need to sell a sponsorship to this and get Pav Alex back for his production investment.
[00:40:13] Brian: I know, I know. I have that as part
[00:40:15] Troy: I actually think at this point, this curve cafe thing, we should take a portion of that revenue because you've mentioned it so many times.
[00:40:22] Brian: Do you know how many people have taken a portion of the revenue? Jacque
Shk? I shouldn't. I I, if Jacque Shk is listening, please, I want the guy to make like an amazing dinner. still he's mon, he's in full monetization mode. I will tell you that much. That guy got his Michelin star and he's like, all right, time to make this thing work. That's the way
[00:40:39] Troy: Well now you're making me feel kind of jealous. I'm sure the air will be warm. You should have an om. The omelets are good in, can
[00:40:45] Brian: The omelets.
[00:40:46] Troy: I like a simple omelet?
[00:40:48] Brian: Yeah. I like omelets in Japan. They're my favorite omelets. They make 'em with chopsticks and they're just like perfect little French omelets, but done in a very Japanese way.
Favorite albums in the world.
[00:40:58] Troy: I
miss Alex.
[00:40:59] Brian: I missed Alex. All right. Do you have a good product?
[00:41:01] Good product
[00:41:03] Troy: Don't have one today. I think we're gonna skip that segment.
[00:41:06] Brian: What do you, is it cuz I gave you shit about you saying like a grape is a good product.
[00:41:10] Troy: is a great product. A lemon is a great product. no, I just, you know what, in all of the commotion, I don't think I thought of one.
[00:41:18] Brian: Okay, well my canned good product is linen. Linen is a good product. I've lived in Miami for a couple years and Linen is a friend. And I think with
[00:41:26] Troy: linen shorts and a and shirt or just a shirt.
[00:41:30] Brian: just as an overall breathable,
[00:41:32] Troy: Fabric.
[00:41:33] Brian: fabric, My brother was living for years in Southeast Asia and people have entirely different wardrobes in these kind of places that are incredibly hot and humid.
that's gonna be our future. So we're gonna have to like really all retool, into the linen. we all experienced up close in New York what climate change is gonna be bringing to us, and I don't think it's gonna stop any soon. So linen
is my good product.
[00:41:56] Troy: the only, knock on linen, of course, is that you have to be careful that it doesn't get too wrinkled in transport. will you take the linen out of. The suitcase and press it so that it looks tight and crisp.
[00:42:08] Brian: I mean, if there's iron at the b, I will, but if not, you go to war with the Army you got, I mean, You got whore with the linen shirt you got? I don't know.
I hope I won't get removed from the curve
Cafe if I have a crease.
[00:42:22] Troy: Is there a brand of linen provider that you,
[00:42:25] Brian: No, I, linen is linen. I think that's the good thing. It's a great equalizer. it's easy to get just like a nice linen shirt. Not overly expensive.
[00:42:33] Troy: You know what? I'm gonna go to an event tonight. I'm gonna wear linen.
[00:42:35] Brian: Isn't it too early?
[00:42:36] Troy: Is it,
I have a linen
suit. It's a little rumpled.
[00:42:39] Brian: Nah. You know, those rules don't matter anyway. You should wear whatever you want.
[00:42:43] Troy: Yeah, that's what I'm gonna do.
[00:42:44] Brian: Yeah,
[00:42:44] Troy: Thank you, Brian. What a great, good product submission.
[00:42:47] Outro
[00:42:47] Brian: All right. Well we miss Alex. Are we doing this next week or are we skipping a
[00:42:51] Troy: I don't know, we gotta send him a text. I actually like that. he wasn't here. It was refreshing
[00:42:56] Brian: Why are you
[00:42:56] Troy: it was nice. Well, just to be able to talk to you and we got a chance to catch up. I
think it was good
I think
Alex will listen.
Yeah,
[00:43:04] Brian: can tell, can we tell Rich that we suspended Alex for a week?
[00:43:07] Troy: yeah. Rich, we,
[00:43:08] Brian: Rich. We suspended Alex for a week. We decided that he had offended, the digital advertising ecosystem
Too much. 


PVA S1E41
PVA S1E41
[00:00:00] Cold Open
[00:00:00] Alex: I missed you guys. Troy looks more south of France than anyone with his purple Laco T-shirt
[00:00:05] Brian: you're part French. Correct. How do they hydrate?
[00:00:08] Troy: What kind
of fucking, question
is that? How do they hide
[00:00:11] Brian: they have these little teeny glasses of water and getting water. It's like robbing a bank. And I like the French, let, lemme be clear. This is not an anti France or anti French diatribe.
[00:00:21] Alex: yeah. the wine is mostly water, so is the
coffee,
So is the afternoon coffee? I was surprised by how many young, very skinny, very attractive People were in like 90 degree heat stuffing themselves full of like steaming hot and food, smoking cigarettes at the time, and I was
[00:00:38] Brian: I love that. that.
[00:00:40] Alex: incredible.
[00:00:42] Brian: favorite European move, is smoking through the like meats and cheeses course. That's when you know you're dealing with like next level stuff,
[00:00:49] Alex: Yeah, that's,
[00:00:51] Brian: Oh, yeah, yeah.
[00:00:51] Alex:
[00:01:14] Welcome start
[00:01:14] Brian: Welcome to People Versus Algorithms, a show about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Morrisey, founder of rebooting, and each week I'm joined by Longtime Media Executive and investor, Troy Young. And Alex Schleifer, former head of Design at Airbnb and c e o of Universal Entities. Dark patterns aren't exactly new.
We are hardwired to manipulation and design is no different. The digitization of everything is meant. Optimization has moved to the forefront and taken to extremes. Optimization quickly becomes dark patterns. The Federal Trade Commission apparently is seen enough. Last September, it signaled a move against dark patterns with a research report that aimed to show, quote, how companies are increasingly using sophisticated design practices known as dark patterns that can trick or manipulate consumers into buying products or services, or giving up their privacy.
The FTC went on to name such horrors as disguising ads to look like independent content, making it difficult to cancel subscriptions or. Burying key terms or junk fees, and also tricking people into sharing their data. This sounds like just another day in the media business and the war on Dark Patterns will continue because, well, it's a political winner.
Nobody likes to feel ripped off, and politicians like publishers respond to incentives. Now, these reports are typically followed by enforcement actions, and the FTC took a pair of them this week first against Publisher's Clearinghouse. One of the OG Dark Pattern mongers, and as Troy points out, a key agent of magazine publishers who relied on all kinds of rackets to build their rate base.
And perhaps more interesting is where the FTC went next on Wednesday, accusing Amazon of all people of deceiving customers into subscribing to Amazon Prime, a membership program that has over 160 million members in the US alone and the telling of FTC chair Lena Kahn. Amazon tricked and trapped people into recurring subscriptions without their consent.
Not only frustrating users, but also costing them significant money. Wow. Call it a cancel. Commissioner Kahn. As was said to me last week, the media industry might collapse without dark patterns. Even banning auto renew would lead to carnage in its wake as most subscription programs and media companies are premised on cut rate intro offers that auto renew at drastically higher prices.
Reliance on dark patterns is, to my mind, part of a larger issue of adversarial business models that have proliferated in media often seeming like a game of Just finding out what you can get away with before people revolt. As much as companies complain about regulations, they often can't. Help themselves to push the envelope as far as possible, particularly in a competitive and difficult industry.
Like the media business tech isn't the only industry that uses sleight of hands and design and business processes. So this week we discuss the reliance on dark patterns and how regulation aside new tools are arising to allow people to circumvent dark patterns altogether and leave the companies reliant on them standing on an increasingly shrinking ice flow.
Seemingly endlessly chipped away as the unearned advantages of many media companies relied on erode. And these companies are forced then to fight, to earn distribution just like everybody else. And the answer is that every day you have to go out and fight and earn your keep. I hope you enjoy this conversation we took last week off, and I think that we had good energy for this one.
And as always, we appreciate your feedback and, help in growing this podcast. So please do share. With a friend or colleague that you think might like it and send me a note with your thoughts. I'm brian@therebooting.com. Now into the conversation
[00:04:38] Welcome end
[00:04:38] Troy: is there an off chance that someone will figure out that cigarettes aren't that bad for you?
[00:04:43] Alex: has
he?
[00:04:44] Brian: I don't know. People are still going analog cigarette in France and it says you die, I believe on the package. I think that's, the translation
[00:04:51] Alex: I mean, the package here, just heart surgery and shots of peoples,
[00:04:56] Brian: when you have a good product where you can put, like you die on the front of it and people are like, I'll take, I'll take two.
[00:05:02] Alex: yeah. Donald Trump seems to that type of product. but no, Troy, it's, sorry.
[00:05:09] Troy: Hmm.
[00:05:10] Alex: Yeah, sorry.
[00:05:14] Brian: For cigarettes.
[00:05:15] Troy: the problem is, I go to Shelter Island and it's this place that you get away and there's always a pack of cigarettes here, and I think of it as a kind of vacation space, but when you're like there every week, it's not really smoking on vacation,
It's
smoking.
[00:05:29] Brian: It's just smoking.
[00:05:30] Alex: that's when leisure,
[00:05:32] Brian: Yeah,
you should just, you should just work more.
[00:05:36] Troy: I haven't smoked in the last couple weeks. I'm proud to say
[00:05:40] Brian: it's so weird. I used to be like a social smoker at Europe or whatever and now I can't even imagine like having a cigarette. Like I
[00:05:48] Troy: just pleasure. I love it. I love it.
[00:05:52] Alex: one again.
[00:05:56] Brian: So this is actually a good segue.
[00:05:58] Troy: To what?
[00:05:59] Brian: Into the first topic I wanna talk about, which is dark patterns. So the FTC is on this campaign against dark patterns. last year in September, they
[00:06:08] Troy: What's the definition of a dark pattern?
[00:06:10] Brian: well, I wanna turn to Alex for, to explain the dark pattern, what we're talking about. Basically it's using design for evil.
that's my
[00:06:17] Alex: Mm-hmm.
[00:06:17] Brian: definition.
[00:06:18] Alex: Yeah, I would say dark pattern is, a feature that is meant to trach or manipulate a user into, an action that is beneficial for the business, but maybe not beneficial for the user.
[00:06:30] Troy: So all
interface.
[00:06:31] Brian: isn't that the job?
[00:06:32] Alex: well, here's the thing. as always told my team, let's not ourselves old design is, manipulation,
you faucet a certain way so people understand where hot, cold, you design a door so people intuitively push, pull it, It dark. is that it's essentially a thing that's, you can do in a purchasing funnel, hide something, pre-check a check thing that subscribes you to a newsletter.
And these types of things are, you know it when you see them. I'm kind of, for the first time coming in,
[00:07:01] Brian: Well, yeah, So basically the background to this is, a year ago they issued a report, which is usually the ftc, The way the United States works with regulatory action. It doesn't matter if it's Democrat or Republican, they don't wanna take action. They want industries to self-regulate as much as possible.
And they're like, no, really, really, really, really. And then the industries act shocked when they take action like we were seeing with privacy. But anyway, with dark patterns. A year ago they said, this is coming. And they described dark patterns. The examples that they used were disguising ads to look like independent content, making it difficult for consumers to cancel subscriptions or charges.
Imagine that in publishing.
[00:07:40] Troy: Jesus Does that include native advertising?
[00:07:42] Brian: yeah. So they've, they've gone out after native advertising, for a while. Nothing like what I did with,Curve Interactive at the curve Cafe. I was all above board.
[00:07:50] Alex: at.
[00:07:54] Troy: Mm-hmm.
[00:07:54] Brian: know this. No, I, this is a platform. This is not a campaign, it's a platform.
[00:08:00] Troy: You're like a walking dark pattern
[00:08:02] Brian: Burying key terms or junk fees and tricking consumers into sharing their data. So the FTC this week took action and they went after Publisher's Clearinghouse, which is the originator of dark patterns, it's not a feature, it's the product,
it's a, just a dark
[00:08:16] Troy: You mean that million dollar huge check was a dark pattern symbol.
You mean they didn't actually get that money?
[00:08:22] Brian: I had a girlfriend in college who worked for Publishers Clearinghouse during the summers and she said she would be opening the mail. She said it was so sad cuz there was no Google Maps. So they put directions and Drew maps cuz like people could get confused for the prize patrol cuz they thought the prize patrol might come and get lost and be like, oh fuck it, we're just gonna go to a different house.
And so
[00:08:43] Alex: I have no fucking idea what this is.
[00:08:45] Brian: You don't know Publisher's Clearinghouse.
[00:08:46] Alex: No.
[00:08:47] Brian: It supported the magazine industry for a long, long time,
[00:08:50] Alex: I grew up in a place where you couldn't buy magazines.
[00:08:54] Brian: Oh my God.
It was A farm in Zimbabwe. Where did you grow? I don't even want to know.
[00:08:59] Troy: What about Donkey Care monthly?
[00:09:03] Brian: Okay, So Publisher's Clearinghouse was a sweepstakes and they said, you've gotta to enter the sweepstakes. You get more chances if you get these free magazines, which then obviously become not free. Anyway, they settled with the FTC for 18.5 million, but that was like an easy one. Then they went after Amazon.
Amazon of all places. They went after them for Amazon Prime, which I thought was like almost universally beloved and claimed that they violated the FTC Act and the Restore Online Shoppers Confidence Act. That sounds interesting. By using so-called dark patterns or deceptive design tactics meant to steer users towards a specific choice.
Imagine that, that sounds awful. To push consumers to enroll in Prime without their consent. Alex Heal
Thyself.
[00:09:55] Alex: have a, but I.
[00:09:58] Brian: Wait, why are you that? That's the lamest
thing. You know, Troy is gonna come in.
[00:10:03] Troy: No. Come in. What
[00:10:04] Alex: miss.
[00:10:05] Troy: I think it's a bigger, it's a bigger issue. I like how Brian framed this publisher's clearinghouse thing because the magazine industry they sort of outsourced, subscriber acquisition. it was really distant from the business they created an expectation with consumers that you could subscribe to, a magazine or a group of magazines for like,7 99 a year.
And that, you would get three magazines for that price. What those showed up as in the publishing world were like in many cases, negative remit. Circulation, which meant that you didn't make your money back on those subscribers. You were subsidizing them and you were subsidizing them cuz the ad business in the magazine world was so good for so long.
So some magazines had positive distribution dynamics. Magazines like The New Yorker, that people paid a fairly hefty subscription price for many like fashion magazines, for example, that cost a lot to print. And actually had very kind of flacid subscriber, dynamics.
but were subsidized except that you made so much money off. ad page rates, that, that was fine. The business works. So you didn't make money on subs, you made money on advertising. And the best magazines had the triple threat like Cosmo that sold on newsstand, had a very vibrant subscriber base and had really, really good advertising, most of which came from the beauty industry.
So, magazine like Cosmo is wildly, wildly profitable, particularly in America. So it was a racket to your point, Brian, all the tricks that existed and what they called them is not just the category of publisher. Clearinghouse was called a, they were called agents and they would basically hand you subscribers.
You could buy subscribers from agents that would go out and, use all these kind of nefarious tactics as you called the dark patterns to, pull in subscribers. But what's more interesting, I think is. The entire media industry exists, or, kind of worked because there were all these traps that locked consumers into subscription mechanisms.
what I think is interesting about the time we're living in now is as soon as you actually have to earn a reader or a subscriber, either by selling them a subscription or getting them to read something or getting them on an email newsletter list, suddenly the business gets really, really hard and the numbers get a lot smaller.
And the notion of these kind of $10 CPMs it becomes really hard to make the business work. And that's why things like, seo, search engine optimization so important because it was one of the remaining. Easy sources of traffic. social was there for a while and then search came in.
But like direct traffic from a motivated consumer that was electing to go to a media property was a real small part of virtually everybody's distribution. And now, this is the problem with streaming. you gotta earn every subscriber then you gotta keep it filled with content.
and the economics of doing that really undermine the business versus
cable when cable was like a tax, everybody just had it
[00:13:12] Brian: Mm-hmm.
[00:13:12] Alex: The thing I don't get is like that magazine stuff. Isn't the racket really? Can the advertisers be pissed off because they're paying for an audience that probably doesn't wanna read the magazines
[00:13:24] Troy: Yeah.
[00:13:25] Brian: This is a, victimless crime. E e, everything in media. It's not, it's not a scam, it's a conspiracy. I mean, I just got
back from
Cannes. I mean, that's the,
[00:13:34] Alex: Troy. this is the
[00:13:35] Brian: I mean, I just, I just
got back from Cannes. It's the ultimate. It's the ultimate
conspiracy.
[00:13:40] Troy: it's a good question, Alex, and I think the way it really works is if you were paying a $20 CPM for a premium publication, you realized that a lot of it was wasted. And in reality, you were probably paying, double that or triple that,
but It was just a lie we
all
told ourselves And it was fun.
[00:13:59] Alex: I would like to go back to the Amazon stuff, but to me this whole side of things, just generally feels like a racket. The products are racket,
[00:14:05] Brian: Christs, they're not getting screwed over.
[00:14:08] Alex: Sure. I mean, I remember like, well for
[00:14:14] Troy: Sure.
[00:14:15] Brian: yeah. But it's just the sys, it's the way the system like was ar architected. It's the same as like when Europeans freak out that oh, an appendectomy costs like $78,000 in the United States.
Nobody's paying $78,000
[00:14:29] Alex: I get, that, American Express Travel Magazine every month and I'm sure they make a
pretty good Yeah. Destinations. I've never fucking read the thing I the internet for, you know, but I'm sure I get counted
anyway. Don't
[00:14:41] Brian: along is pretty interesting too.
[00:14:43] Alex: Soyeah, this is
[00:14:46] Brian: That is like transparently
[00:14:48] Alex: so you just,
[00:14:48] Brian: We're just gonna make shit up
[00:14:51] Alex: lemme maybe then pivot to the Amazon one, Because I think the Amazon one, I don't know what their motivations are. it's a weird target cause Prime is such a universally loved product and all of the things that they seem to complain about is very welcome to the internet, including stuff.
I think for when you try to cancel it, it'll try to redirect you to not canceling. is the funnel, oh. if you cancel, you'll, you'll lose access to are, I think Amazon is very experiment based. So all but I think overall product and I think it's hard to buy it by mistake.
Most people love it. very high customer satisfaction surveys and you can cancel it easier than most things, than Amazon is generally gonna refund you money
[00:15:33] Brian: Yeah. If this wasn't Amazon
and this wasn't a large tech company, they wouldn't have gone after him. I mean, come on. Like I was talking with someone in the publishing industry
[00:15:40] Alex: It's, it's fucking crazy. It's because they take
[00:15:43] Brian: yeah.
[00:15:45] Alex: vector.
[00:15:45] Brian: but I do think the larger point about the dark patterns is a lot of media is propped up by what you could call dark patterns.
New York Times writes about, dark patterns are terrible And I hate to do the thing where it's like, well, look at yourself. cuz a lot of times the reporters have no control over it. But this is on their editorial page and try to cancel the New York Times.
You will run through a saves gauntlet. You have to call to cancel, which should be illegal. It is in California. It,
it's gonna be
[00:16:12] Brian: illegal everywhere. But if the FTC even said auto renews no good. You gotta get people to affirmatively, say that they want to keep their
subscriptioncollapses.
It collapses a lot of businesses, Troy, doesn't it?
[00:16:24] Troy: you're just making me think my head's spinning, like it's kind of everywhere that, one expectation is set and then you as a consumer kind of end up just shrugging and paying more. it happens when you renovate your kitchen and the contractor says, well, that's not included, and your kitchen's ripped apart.
think that this thing that I was mentioning earlier, which is it's one of the sort of hard new realities of the media business. Nobody canceled their cable. And if you did cancel your cable, it was extremely difficult. And if you wanted to pick a la carte and say, I just want espn, but I don't want cnn, you couldn't even do it.
So the whole thing, now, what I can do is I can watch a season of anything on a streamer and then cancel it immediately after. the whole new mechanism of managing consumers through these kind of dtc relationships is not good for media. It's terrible for media. And so, yeah, if you could cancel your.
newspaper subscription or your New York Times subscription willy nilly, it would be bad for business and the economics of the CPM thing that Alex was lamenting a second ago, it's just another sort of understood layer of bullshit that exists in the industry. It's just like, yeah, okay, you're getting a $10 cpm, but the effect of CPMs really, you know, 50.
And that's
just kind of
the dance we do.
[00:17:41] Alex: meanwhile you're on YouTube trying to be like a content creator and you're being tracked granularly for each CPM and each fucking second that you're doing. And you have somebody sitting up top of Hearst Tower going. like,
it's about 20,
it's about
30.
[00:17:54] Brian: personal.
I like it. Yeah, that was
[00:17:56] Alex: I mean, not you, but you know,
I don't know, why I said that, just talking about regulation, I think the Amazon's stuff is like red herring's bullshit, but I do feel like red is important.
It's actually potentially good for those companies regulation can kinda level the playing field a little bit, a lot of these decisions are actually made as like defensive maneuvers. So, for example, surprised you didn't ask me about fees and I'm not officially talking about fees on Airbnb or whatever.
But the fact of the matter is that at some point, Expedia. And Kayak and Airbnb and look at prices side by side. And if one company is forced to show a total price and the other company isn't, then the, the price comparison thing's not gonna work. Now, if everybody's forced to do the same thing, then fine.
Right? Fine. If everybody's forced to, allow for easy canceling or even pausing of a subscription, of any media property, then fine. It levels the playing field. I think right now, the problem is that in a competitive environment, you can't make certain rules for certain people because the stuff that Amazon's doing is not worse
[00:18:54] Brian: Yeah.
[00:18:54] Alex: than.
[00:18:55] Brian: how did you end up thinking about that? At Airbnb or just in general? is there like ethics courses at design school about what is optimization and where
it becomes a quote unquote
dark pattern?
[00:19:08] Alex: There's no fucking
design
[00:19:10] Brian: Oh, you learned your design on the streets,
the streets of Zimbabwe,
or
[00:19:14] Alex: I didn't finish high school. Man
[00:19:15] Brian: I.
[00:19:16] Alex: was just me. Tablets.
there's a lot of talk, the ethics of design because design is powerful, right? Interface is powerful. cause you can manipulate people and I do think it's all manipulation, but the thing that gets missed is oftentimes, like, you know, the conversations are atAirbnb, and we've had many about, fees and how we display them.
You know, you're running a global business and turns out that the things that seem simple at first aren't so simple. because comparison shopping becomes harder because we do research and turns out that a certain way of showing something confuses the hell outta people. So it's really hard to get right.
at least when I was there, I know that there was a lot of intention from everyone to try to fix this problem in a way that wouldn't, hurt the host and, get consumers confused and, you know, did we do a good enough job? No. But I think at the end
of
the day,
that type of shit is Yeah, like, or any type of
fees?
or
[00:20:02] Brian: I was checking out on my Airbnb just yesterday and was terrified. I was terrified. I was like, oh my God, I gotta do my chores. I gotta get the recycling all sorted
and get it.
[00:20:12] Alex: they're working against that. the thing you have to consider is that in this case, Airbnb's kinda a weird case because you have like millions of, I
[00:20:18] Brian: Oh, it's not all individuals by the way. There's a
[00:20:21] Alex: and you can't
[00:20:22] Brian: are just, they're unregulated hotels.
Come on,sharing economy. That was a
dark pattern.
[00:20:28] Alex: but what I'm saying, you can't set the prices for most people, so it's
actually pretty tricky to get that right. You know, when you
[00:20:34] Brian: My Airbnb didn't have hot water. I sorry. Do you guys ever
take cold showers?
[00:20:38] Alex: guys, I'm right now, it's
center of Vienna. It's incredible. But turns out my fellow Austrians and I'm half Austrian, have a terrible taste in furniture.
[00:20:50] Brian: Well, if you have hot water, it's better.
[00:20:52] Troy: Hey, Brian. You know what? One thing, this is a little bit of a jumping off point on the interface
[00:20:58] Brian: Yeah.
[00:20:58] Alex: Troy's opening a new tab.
[00:21:00] Brian: Yeah.
I,
like what Troy. Troy lives his interests. That's
[00:21:03] Troy: the record, I hate Airbnbs.
glad your Airbnb is school. Fuck,
[00:21:07] Brian: in Como? Do you not stay at Airbnb?
[00:21:09] Troy: Well, I stayed at a friend's house in coma, but I'd rather stay at a hotel.
But hey guys, let me broaden this a little bit because there's another item, I think it came up in the news this week and it just made me think about, so these dark patterns emerge and are something maybe, I think the regulators' attention was misplaced. For the record, Amazon Prime is the product of the century.
it created an incredible mode around that company and as a consumer, I love it. But having said that, the whole world is moving to interfaces, right? so the opportunity to trick a consumer inside of a series of buttons and windows and texts and small print and all that increases.
And what it made me think is that last week, I, I think I mentioned this
to you guys. I ha.
[00:21:54] Alex: you take, are
you taking this to.
[00:21:56] Troy: No, I'm not. but just go with me here, Alex. So, my mother was distressed when my son and I went to visit her because she couldn't, speaking of dark patterns, she couldn't watch the local news.
as you know, you get the local news on the cable box. That's how she does it. Someone had given her an lgtv, the lgtv hijacked her interface, and she didn't know how to move between the lg. TV interface to fast channels and the like. back to her cable box cuz she had to use this incredibly, difficult input switching thing on the lgtv.
Her hands shaking. She's trying to use the pointer on the LG remote. She's like, I don't know how to do this. Basically she couldn't move from one H D M I input to another one. And through that navigate two interfaces and two very overly complicated remotes to get her local news. so there's, there's a battle emerging right now for interface to your television.
Right. And the OEM people want to take it, they want to take it cuz they don't make any money on hardware and they make lots of money on advertising through fast channels. It is a material shift in the media ecosystem that someone new is gonna control as people cut the cord, you turn your TV on somebody presents you with content choices, be it fast channels or, or movie rental options or whatever it is.
Now there's another one going on because as you know, the car is just becoming a bunch of screens. And there was some controversy now today that car manufacturers are in the same position where, the actual thing, the cars are becoming increasingly commoditized and their ability to offer services through these interfaces, like heated seats are a subscription.
Or you know, I don't know
who it was that, they're starting to do No, no, no. But all of these
[00:23:42] Alex: add like,
[00:23:43] Troy: that you take for granted that are just features of a car will
be start, well,
[00:23:48] Alex: they're just,
[00:23:48] Troy: hardware enablement or whatever. Right. And there's controversy because Apple and Google who make the kind of, interface layer for most things that we use today, want the car,
they have Apple play in
[00:24:02] Brian: Well,
[00:24:02] Troy: play in the car, and
[00:24:04] Brian: don't
wanna build the car. They just wanna make the
[00:24:06] Troy: No, they want the software for the car there's a battle happening because car makers can't do it. And because Apple and Google are really good at it, and consumers want to drag in all their preferences, their maps, their contact, their phone, et cetera, their music into their vehicle.
And so there's a little war brewing between these two people that want to own the interface of the car. And if you're left at the end of the day just making the, like car itself and the interface is controlled by someone else, you're losing all of the economic value of
the machine.
[00:24:38] Brian: that's the
[00:24:39] Troy: So
[00:24:39] Brian: Musk.
[00:24:41] Alex: cause it's
[00:24:41] Troy: warring
interfaces.
[00:24:43] Alex: by the way, fuck Musk, but the Tesla is the only
car that has a
decent
user
interface that you can buy today. a hundred
percent
[00:24:50] Brian: one of the other things I like about France is that like you get people to drive off. Billy and Tesla is like for Uber, and trying to get in or out of Tesla is like
nightmare. So, Yeah, the door handles, like, why
can't they just, it's okay.
It's standardized. Like it's
fine.
Troy just rolled his eyes. I just wanna like, unless we have a YouTube version,
[00:25:09] Troy: No, it's just like
[00:25:10] Brian: just speak
[00:25:11] Troy: notes from the curmudgeon. You know? I got my shit ready.
Where are you guys?
[00:25:18] Brian: I already
said. I want to
be
[00:25:19] Troy: Grandpa Pants.
[00:25:21] Brian: Rooney,
the thing that's happening with the car interface, which is really worrying, because it's really made TVs very shit I'm pretty up to date as to which TVs you can buy, and it's today nearly impossible to buy TV that isn't utter bullshit. I was in a, Airbnb just a week ago that had an older TV that wasn't smart yet, and that thing fucking turned on in like a fraction of a second.
[00:25:43] Alex: You could plug in an HDMI and it didn't do all the scanning stuff. It didn't like pop up all the stuff. And it's scary to think that that's what's gonna happen to cars. But I think unfortunately for car manufacturers, people love CarPlay
[00:25:54] Brian: yeah.
[00:25:54] Alex: people love Android. only thing you want is to plug your
[00:25:58] Brian: uses the navigation system on cars? I asked this to like my parents and they're the only ones who use it. they're even more curmudgeonly than I am cuz they're significantly older.
[00:26:09] Alex: I was interviewing with a couple of car companies at some point, you know, some advisory roles and, you know, it just seemed like really hard for car companies to do anything decent with the interface. Like you buy 50,000 cars and.
[00:26:25] Brian: it's funny cuz this is a problem for a lot of these industrial professions, and I think it actually is like news in some ways. my brother does, he just, retired I guess in quotes, from Intel. And he was Intel forever. And he was saying how the car companies, with the chip rums, it was all basically they had industrial supply chains that were, they're not used to, acting like technology companies at all.
they were treating the chips the same way. They treat like a carburetor or something and it just does not work
at all.
[00:26:54] Alex: here's the thing, it's gonna make the service fication of everything, where every company is starting to become a service company, features that you could, buy as, add-ons to a car that would be factory installed are now pre-installed and you just turned them on using a subscription service.
It's gotta make so many products shitty. which product got better from that? You know, I think everybody seeing
iPhone. Well, the thing is, everybody wants to be Apple and everybody noticed like, Hey, here's Apple. They did this thing and every button that anybody presses on Apple, they make a cut.
That's what we want. We wanna build an iPhone on wheels. But then when you kinda, at some point drive out to the pizza store to buy a pizza, we make a cut of that. I dunno what the fuck they wanna do, the problem is they're not Apple. Nobody is, and everybody's gonna fuck it up. The only people who's made interfaces that they can control fully
[00:27:39] Brian: Yeah. So,
[00:27:40] Alex: Tesla.
And
it's, you know,
[00:27:42] Brian: One of the things that kept coming up at the Curve Cafe at the new
Attention Economy last week was that,
those are, they're valued partners. This is no campaign. was retail media networks and how, because again, they control, an interface if you will, and they see how much money is to be made in search, let's, be real. It's, a lot of it is, is search and they have data and there's something like, there's 70 retail media networks now, everyone is piling in to try to get at for all that.
People hate advertising.
everyone's a piece of it
[00:28:17] Alex: That's free money if it works, but it's does motivate darker patterns, more user behavior and don't think that are many great advertisers supported products in the world.
the last one was the magazine,
[00:28:31] Troy: I mean, oh my God.
I'm glad you brought up retail media, Brian, because I love media and then that's where I wanna spend my time, but between, not being able to kind of rope consumers into a relationship more easily to retail media is like existential for media.
because the world is all interfaces, the people that control the shopping interfaces are now in a much better position to monetize you as a consumer. And every dollar that goes to retail media comes out of the pocket of media
and
[00:29:00] Brian: don't know about that,
[00:29:01] Troy: well, okay, maybe it comes out of the pocket of Google, which already came out of the pocket of media,
[00:29:06] Brian: but wait some, A lot of this is coming from shopper marketing budgets and like to get
totally nerd
out, like shelf takers or whatever they're called, and end caps.
[00:29:16] Troy: it's a much more, it's a much bigger business than that ever
[00:29:19] Brian: Well, that's what I was asking. Kirk McDonald, group M North America ceo, who came to the Curve Cafe, about this. Cuz I was like, okay, there's two twin areas that are growing fast cuz like digital advertising is a mature industry, It is not growing like it used to. And there are new entrants in there.
It's not just Google and Facebook and Amazon even. and Apple. It's a lot of this retail media. And then it's connected tv. And those two areas are now becoming increasingly entwined too. And that money comes from somewhere. And to me, where a lot of it is coming outta display. And guess, guess who relies on display?
text publishers, text news publishers
too.
[00:29:59] Troy: Yeah.
It's not good.
[00:30:00] Alex: So you saying people just for the lay out.
[00:30:05] Brian: We have more than that. My brother-in-law Bill listens.
[00:30:11] Alex: you're saying that, the advertising dollars are going into these units that exist natively in some
sort of
platform that's like Amazon or Apple
[00:30:20] Brian: so so when you arrived in niece, Zora Airport, so you could go to Cannes you open up Uber and it was like,
welcome to Cannes. And, they're gonna be a
big ad business and they have a lot of data. They know where you're going and then you're going down the road and they're like, oh, you should go to Mr.
Pizza, which is a great brand. by the way, Mr. Pizza, one of my favorite French brands. and you can't compete with that really as a, text-based,
[00:30:48] Troy: Oh my God, man, my phone died. I used my wife's phone to call an Uber. I open up the phone. I press a button for the Uber, and I get a Netta Portee ad, beautifully presented. Nothing around it, right in the interface, totally targeted to her. They know about her. They know how much she spends.
They know where she lives. I'm telling you that revenue would've went to Vogue or l It's hard to compete. This is a terrible thing for media. Retail media definitely takes dollars away from media, and you add that to, the rush to, ring subscribers out of the market when it gets increasingly difficult.
There's just so few winners and so many losers. And then what? Then we go back to Brian, oh, we're gonna be sort of, we're gonna do activations at the curb cafe, or we're gonna do like an email newsletter list. Great. Do it. It's awesome. but like you're gonna need a massive adjustment in CPMs and you're gonna need real material subscription fees.
And these are gonna be $20 million businesses. They're tiny.
[00:31:50] Brian: Yeah, I'll take a 20 million business though.
Let's be clear. It's a one part,
[00:31:54] Alex: Yeah,
[00:31:55] Brian: I've got a lean operation, but that's why I think one of the brighter futures of media is on the niche side. and I think, the individual creators, there were a lot of creators in Cannes this year, which is another sort of competitor really to establish
[00:32:09] Troy: another vector that's, an assault on the old industry for sure. So,
[00:32:12] Brian: And there's different economics that go on when you don't have a lot of that infrastructure layer that a lot of these media companies have. So, challenging times.
[00:32:21] Alex: scale used to be the advantage that these old Claires had, and now that there's a huge disadvantage, basically. I mean, yes, of course, even this fucking podcast, right? If you wanted to promote your new to-do app, would you do it here or would you just pay Apple to just like put it at the top of thesearch feed when you type,
like who's gonna fucking
buy?
Who's gonna,
[00:32:39] Brian: worse,
[00:32:41] Troy: Alex, when can you do me a favor?
[00:32:43] Brian: Alex. This is a dark pattern. You are a dark pattern.
[00:32:46] Troy: Well, speaking
of
dark patterns,
[00:32:48] Alex: Why would you wanna buy advertising on this
[00:32:51] Brian: Jesus Christ.
[00:32:53] Alex: on So,
[00:32:55] Brian: Okay. I was just, by the way, I was just at Bloomberg Media. Okay. And two interesting things happened. I was talking to their, their leadership team. They had a leadership summit, and I was interviewed by Julia. Baer, who is the chief product officer there and who is a loyal listener to this podcast.
And this is what I didn't actually
tell you guys this, so this is what Julia told me. She said, like you said, this is on stage too little stage, but this is the stage. And she said, what you're doing with people versus algorithms and this is the podcast Brian is doing with Troy Young and what's that
[00:33:26] Troy: what.
[00:33:27] Brian: name?
[00:33:29] Brian: And I was like, finally, cuz you've been getting like, what are they called? Riz up so much that, I was like, I'm glad I said I'm gonna bring this up on the podcast I'm doing like right after this, Julia, I did mean it. And then she said, but he's my favorite one after you. So that Troy would by implication,
[00:33:48] Troy: Wow.
[00:33:50] Brian: but she didn't say that.
I'm just saying.
[00:33:52] Troy: She didn't say that. You made that up.
[00:33:54] Brian: No, no, no. she didn't
[00:33:55] Alex: I mean,
[00:33:55] Brian: say that you were her least favorite, but by
implicationif,
[00:33:59] Alex:
[00:33:59] Brian: yeah.
[00:34:01] Alex: hear logic.
You follow the
logic.
[00:34:03] Brian: is,
[00:34:03] Troy: Well,
[00:34:04] Alex: she doesn't remember my name, but
who?
[00:34:09] Troy: but it was clearly biased because she had Brian next to her on stage. What
was she gonna say?
[00:34:14] Brian: it would've been rude. And then
[00:34:17] Troy: Who? What's her name again? Brian? Because I really wanna
reach out.
[00:34:21] Brian: she's, she's
great. She used to be at HuffPo.
[00:34:22] Troy: like me more if she got to know me, perhaps.
[00:34:25] Brian: Yeah. and also by the way,
[00:34:27] Alex: My dad
[00:34:28] Troy: Thank you.
Thanks dad. Hey Brian. The other thing is, can we, Alex, can, when, when we send this to edit this week, can we edit, can we beep out? Curve Cafe, put a beep over anytime. It's said that,
[00:34:40] Brian: That would be fun.
[00:34:41] Troy: and also, yeah.
[00:34:42] Brian: Because actually that's a good dark pattern cuz then I can go back to Curve and be like, Troy insisted that we beep out the thing, but for an extra fee we can un beep
[00:34:52] Troy: yeah.
[00:34:52] Brian: curve. Cafe a gentleman came up to me and said, how is everything at the Curve Cafe? You've been mentioning it nonstop.
He was also a listener.
[00:35:02] Alex: That's amazing. Did you see how the Reddit communities revolted against Reddit by turning some communities x-rated. So maybe that's what we should do, Troy, just get just really nasty
whenever he
mentions the curb
[00:35:14] Brian: by the way? What is behind the, the whole, I understand the Reddit revolt Is this just like, they realize that there is no way they're gonna to the valuation that they need to get
at unless
they.
[00:35:25] Alex: yeah, but by the way, It's a communication nightmare. I don't know what the fuck they're doing. They could have had everything they wanted, without creating what they did. They've always had trouble controlling the communities, but in some way it's also, something that they have that allows them to moderate these massive communities with very low cost.
Cause they have lots of people
[00:35:43] Brian: So here, here's a
crazy idea. CTC cut the check. What is it With these tech platforms thinking they never have to pay people. That everyone, they get paid, but they don't wanna pay anyone.
[00:35:52] Alex: that's the whole thing, right? that's the way they're coming across. That executive team is coming across as we provide the platform. What the fuck are you guys whining about? I think that is a
[00:36:01] Brian: Oh, they're just providing the value.
[00:36:03] Alex: antagonizing.
Yeah.
[00:36:05] Troy: Alex and I provide the
value on this podcast and
you chill
[00:36:08] Brian: I do not chill.
That's offensive and inaccurate. Okay. I
educate and I inspire. What do they owe?
[00:36:17] Alex: you,
[00:36:17] Brian: What do they say? the amount of bullshit, that was uttered
in Cannes is like amazing. Is in
[00:36:22] Alex: I think all platforms are antagonist to their creators. you know, YouTube is, better at it because they've gone through the ringer more than others. But, you know, you talk to some folks there, they see all the peopleposting on their, system as just a
[00:36:34] Brian: Yeah.
Demonetize and all this
The thing is like, that's why I blame Troy for being like briefly web three curious. the one part that I did find very. Attractive was the idea of the people who are creating on a platform, owning the platform. Like I think that strikes me
an anti dark pattern and
just,
[00:36:54] Alex: Hey, Do you know which platform allows us to do that? The last free platform on the internet, my friend.
[00:37:00] Brian: yeah.
[00:37:01] Alex: The last free
[00:37:02] Brian: Wow.
[00:37:03] Alex: of freedom. This is why we all
love it.
[00:37:05] Brian: RSS enough, he like pops up.
[00:37:07] Alex: but this is why it's also impossible to, but we're potentially seeing with Instagram, doing an activity pub. Twitter clone. And a lot of these shifts happening, we're probably seeing maybe a move towards more open on, less controlled platforms. Cause it's really hard to make money as a creator. No creators making money, which is why most of them try to punch it themselves to death.
and fake boxing matches and I think it's gonna just be like, how do you get attention in the future and how do you control your brand and your audience? And people might see that
[00:37:41] Brian: Yeah.
[00:37:41] Alex: it takes, you know, 10 times longer to grow a podcast.
But it's
also.
[00:37:45] Brian: But it's also.
in the interest, a lot of times, like tech companies have woken up to the idea that if you push it too far, you completely eliminate ecosystems so there's more openness to sharing like the spoils with the people who are creating the content.
And I'd look at, with ai, they're gonna cut deals with the LLMs, in order to get access to high quality content, because I don't know if you've read this, I forget where it was, but there's this idea, I think it was MIT tech review, that basically the LLMs are gonna be training themselves on like synthetic content and it's just gonna be like bullshit on bullshit, on bullshit on
bullshit. And
[00:38:18] Alex: Oh yeah. it's kinda data inbreeding, generations in, you'll have, you know, hamster three eyeballs. and 99%, 9% of the internet is gonna be generated and Google is gonna be kinda running on, you know, it's a human centipede situation that's gonna being created on the internet.
So what I feel is, To break out of a lot of these systems, break away, become much more individualized. Build businesses that don't require the amount of scale, to survive. right now, if you wanna scale a YouTube channel, you gotta start at some point hiring people, posting fucking 30 videos a week, if new systems come up that allows people to build like five, $10 million businesses with two of their friends,
these things are gonna end up winning
potentially. Don't you think Troy?I
dunno. Troy is like
[00:39:02] Brian: is,
[00:39:02] Alex: he smell far.
[00:39:03] Brian: he's either
mad or thinking.
[00:39:05] Alex: don't like my take?
[00:39:06] Troy: uh, I'm trying to think if you,
[00:39:08] Alex: It's hard to tell.
[00:39:09] Troy: how this sort of snake eating its tail problem resolves itself
and
Yeah.
[00:39:14] Alex: it a human centipede
because that's the image I want. It's ai.
Advertising.
[00:39:19] Troy: Yeah, I don't know. I don't have the answer. I thought I had something to say, but I don't.
New topic.
[00:39:24] Brian: next question.
[00:39:25] Alex: the economics are starting to not make sense for too many people in media. even the creators. Cause nobody makes fucking money on TikTok very.
[00:39:35] Brian: yeah, So play this out. So I was talking with, a creator manager. she has a business where she represents a ton of creators and stuff, and I was like, oh, that's a great business to be in now. with all this like going, I, I've known her for a few years.I'm like, it's protected from all the AI stuff.
She's like, not really. what's gonna happen is they're gonna train, there's gonna be synthetic creators that are created on creator content and are just tweaked a little bit. And they'll be good enough too. And then they're gonna be competing with infinite creators,
of
whom are real.
[00:40:08] Alex: Yeah, but I think that's undermining the value of following somebody who's real and you know, has a life. ever since we've been into rock stars and musicians, we've wanted to know what they do outside in music. We don't just consume the output. we try to get closer to a person. So I think the act of being a person will still help. we don't only buy the performance and I think that's often, and you have a lot of these ai we're saying all of our content will be generated, all of our heroes will be generated or all.
boyfriends and girlfriends will be generated and Sure.
[00:40:49] Troy: I wonder if we get a new type of, this sort of sticky AI mythology. Persisting, meaning AI is really good for like evergreen content, it's good for, how do I boil an egg, type content. And I wonder if, because the machine just kind of feeds itself. Whether we just get stuff that gets, gets stuck in the loop.
In other words, it's, almost like evergreen folklore that persists because it's stuck in a perpetual loop in the machine telling you to do something one way when there's maybe another way to do it, and it becomes harder to break our, you know, to kind of break that link and come up with new ideas because the machine is feeding everybody the same old ideas.
[00:41:34] Brian: yeah.
Which actually happens, happens in culture already, right? Like, isn't there thing where like e every, third video is like, did you know you were eating banana wrong? They'll show you peeling banana. You're like, the fuck did we do it the way? Right? There's always like some lost knowledge out there that, this is how, and so,
but I think that there, I think a hopeful case for this is exactly that. I mean, this is called people versus algorithms, right? And I think like a conceit of it is that, algorithms have flattened everything on the internet and media and culture.
because you have to serve the algorithms, you have to optimize to the algorithm and everyone is optimizing Yeah. Has the same sort of data. And so everything starts to look and feel the same. And so maybe a hopeful case to this is that this flattening becomes so extreme that in order to get any attention whatsoever, real humans will get like really weird.
[00:42:24] Troy: I
think that's
true, actually.
It's a
[00:42:26] Alex: It's happening. I mean, it happening with Z I think Z is fashion wise, music wise, TasteWise has exploded.
[00:42:37] Troy: they're cool actually. I like them a lot.
[00:42:39] Alex: like
I
[00:42:40] Troy: Yeah,
[00:42:41] Alex: they're super
cool. They're way cooler
[00:42:43] Troy: yeah. They're way more
individualistic. They're way more risk taking. they're just cool.
[00:42:47] Brian: Are they cool?
[00:42:48] Alex:
[00:42:48] Brian: is it just
because millennials were
so not
[00:42:50] Troy: No, it's like I want to
dress
like,
I want to dress like Gen
Z. I dress like a child.
[00:42:56] Brian: Gen X
was cool?
[00:42:57] Alex: gen X was still like, kinda, we still, we followed a very specific prescribed,
definition of what culture was telling us to do. And maybe we got into little groups and somebody would say like, oh, I'm more intopunk. And somebody would say,
I'm more into whatever the fuck else.
but Gen Z feels like, but Gen Zs feels so kind, has opened up about like
[00:43:15] Troy: Do.
[00:43:16] Alex: gender and sexuality and fashion and
music. It's fucking great man. Gen Z is the
[00:43:21] Troy: Yeah, it is, it is super cool.
I've been, I'm hanging out with Gen Zs right now, actually. I just picked them up from the ferry.
[00:43:27] Brian: oh yeah. Cool.
[00:43:28] Alex: How does your, kids, or
did.
[00:43:31] Brian: Just random. Just random. Tufts.
[00:43:34] Troy: No, my daughter brought some friends out and I just, I went to the grocery store with him. It's fun to figure out what Gen Z like to eat too.
[00:43:41] Brian: What do they like to eat? Hot Pockets. Do they,
[00:43:43] Troy: Well,
[00:43:44] Brian: eat Hot Pockets?
[00:43:45] Troy: no, they're more healthy than that.
[00:43:47] Brian: Oh yeah.
[00:43:47] Troy: Okay. But here's the other thing that I wouldn't mind picking your brain on, is that. one of the things that certainly AI doesn't solve for is the kind of access to the new, new meaning. that's what drives media. New meaning new culture, but really more new news.
So when something breaks, now, I thought this was interesting. When news in Russia breaks and you don't feel like going to Twitter, where do you go? where do you get the news? The newest news? The hottest, newest, most recent news
because,
[00:44:18] Alex: would say Twitter's even become shit.
[00:44:20] Troy: well, that's
[00:44:20] Brian: Let's go to the
New York Times.
Didn't you do that during the, during the coup, like
[00:44:24] Troy: Yeah.
[00:44:25] Brian: was made for.
[00:44:26] Troy: Right. So you do, you go to New York Times or you can go to CNN if you can tolerate it.
The problem with the New York Times is it's built on a model of always on, which means that the signal, the noise is terrible. If you're a modern media consumer, they drone on about the same thing endlessly and it's punishing. So if you want to get news kind of on your terms, CNN sucks. And if you want the latest, latest, latest, New York Times isn't bad, but it's not the
latest.
[00:44:56] Brian: like that live story format they have for breaking.
[00:44:59] Troy: true. But if I think that you probably were getting quicker, more on the ground, UpToDate news off TikTok this time around than you were anywhere
[00:45:07] Brian: Oh, come on.
[00:45:09] Troy: not kidding you. Try
it man.
[00:45:11] Brian: to suck up to your Gen Z House guests?
[00:45:13] Troy: No, I'm just
saying that
[00:45:14] Brian: What are you calling the
Russian coup? was it the TikTok coup?
[00:45:17] Troy: what I'm
saying is
TikTok is a
legit,
fast, emerging news outlet, and if you
don't go to Twitter, you can,
if you start selecting videos or watching videos on Russia, the algorithm responds incredibly quickly and you get some really interesting,
[00:45:34] Alex: is the experience story. Is it that you'll have some sort of videos, Russia, and you'll see, just looked like, you know, 50 tanks driving up some, some street, towards Moscow. And you'll flip and you'll see, somebody popping a giant
[00:45:46] Troy: well, that to me Is
that's
a good, that.
[00:45:48] Alex: Or, or some, or some dog l licking,
licking.
[00:45:52] Brian: I.
[00:45:52] Troy: find that really satisfying, Alex, for the record.
[00:45:56] Alex: but.
here's the thing though, Troy, this is like Elon Musk getting lucky more than anything, but I think, Twitter could become a massive source of great live, AI generated content to tell you what's going on somewhere,
you tap directly into a live feed of a hundred million reporters updating the news. and if you could contextualize it and frame it certain would great
artifact. Read an article that I just, like abstract,
just fucking
boom,
[00:46:29] Troy: I, I, need to get behind
Alex on this point. So ever since You started talking when you rudely dismissed me when I sent you that nice long article and you said summarize
and then
alex said it. But you know, I've been thinking a lot about this, like in how inefficient we are everywhere.
So I was looking at a job spec, at Tesla for AI engineers. Cuz someone had sent me this page and it was a paragraph that said basically come here and build this great ship with us. it was three sentences and I just was thinking about signal to noise in media.
it wasn't, the typical job spec, here's all the things that you need to, be qualified to do and all the bullshit that fills it in that someone wrote in some department that no one reads. and also I've been thinking about how much time I waste reading all the stuff between the stuff I actually remember.
Articles and I have a button, I forget what it's called. It's right here. It's called, wise One. I have, I don't know if that's a good one or not. Wise one is a, plugin on Chrome that summarizes any article
and it's extremely good. what I've noticed is e ever since we started talking about this, Alex on Arti, what's it called again?
Artifact. a lot of the times the button is grayed out. Like it's great. Somehow somebody in the, biz dev group at Conde said, you can take our articles, but you can't summarize them
and Right, so, so, so they're not allowing you, they're forcing you to read their entire fucking article so that you can take in the display advertising inside of it.
But, I love it. I totally agree with you. I use this Chrome extension on New York Times articles on New
Yorker articles. I use it
all the time
[00:48:09] Alex: I think people's time is precious industry, a lot of the standards of how long things are is a, the motivations of writers to try to, express themselves with flourish to
people used to be paid per word. Like that's where this all started.
[00:48:22] Brian: yeah.
[00:48:23] Alex: they wanted to fill
more and more pages, so they
needed
to put more and more ads.
[00:48:26] Troy: Fuck. Guilty as charged, man. Guilty
[00:48:28] Alex: my friend. Dark pattern. That's a dark pattern,
[00:48:31] Troy: even selling
[00:48:31] Brian: pay per word is is, that's r i p. Those were good days.
[00:48:36] Alex: my hypothesis once used, we're talking, Siri will do that for us in a minute. You'll some sort hey mells
like,
[00:48:53] Brian: But there, needs to be an economic function otherwise, I'm sorry, the robots are not going to, put aside the all-in podcast ridiculousness. the robots are not gonna go out and report the news. that's just idiotic. It's not gonna
be on the
blockchain.
Sorry, Balaji,
[00:49:08] Alex: no, that's stupid, but people always will. Troy's talking about TikTok, Troy's talking about Twitter. I was talking about Twitter and Reddit. All this is like consumer journalism thing. There's always somebody who wants to do a take. There's always somebody who's gotta record.
a lot of the CNN I've seen was somebody recording the screen
[00:49:26] Brian: that's true.
[00:49:26] Alex: Twitter. Like everybody wants to be in media.
That is the problem with
[00:49:29] Brian: you know, one of the big mistakes of news was reporting Twitter I don't know how many like articles in the previous generation were really just a series of embedded tweets.
[00:49:38] Alex: the platforms know this, and in many ways the media companies knew this because they used to pay the content. Creators have always been paid shit and abused because everybody immediate always seems to complain, but honestly like. and if a hundred people do it for 10 minutes a day, then you have a newsroom, you know, sorry. Like it happens. I once a TV show short lived in some country, and, um,
[00:50:02] Brian: we need tospend more
[00:50:03] Alex: I said like, I'm not gonna do this anymore. it was about the internet. I used ponytail then.I said like
I feel
like
[00:50:09] Troy: that on YouTube, Alex?
[00:50:11] Brian: Yeah.
[00:50:11] Alex: it's a lot of work.
[00:50:12] Brian: content. Maybe we don't have to
run sponsorship.
[00:50:14] Alex: I'm not disclosing anything and used to be a lot of work. And I told the producer I think there's too much work for me. I'm not making enough money. And she literally told me like, most people would do this for free. And here's the thing with media, most people would do this for free. And the problem is, It's really crappy quality and hard to find until you have an AI that becomes everyone's editor
[00:50:35] Troy: Great point, great
[00:50:36] Alex: Room
[00:50:37] Troy: you
lose some of the high end analysis where people spend their lifetime becoming experts in a vertical and that stuff. But yeah.
[00:50:45] Alex: Good. it.
[00:50:47] Brian: Yeah,
[00:50:49] Alex: Word expose but
[00:50:52] Brian: he's still irked about that. Well, good enough is good enough. that's the, the, a lot of people don't want to hear it no matter what field they're in. But like, honestly, let's turn around to design. good enough is good enough. all the stuff that, designers, because they're into the craft.
And I appreciate that. I appreciate all craft, I honor it and whatnot. A lot of the stuff, it's like, oh, gimme a break. Come on. Just move it. Like everyone has dealt with that, with
designers.
[00:51:15] Troy: it. I love it. I honor it. I honor it. Gimme a break.
[00:51:18] Brian: Well, come on. We've all dealt with it. Right? The precious, you
know,
and every, every profession has that. It's not unique to any, and particularly I think any craft
has that.
Well, I'm just, I'm just saying that writers are, are not unique in any way, shape, or form. That's it.
You
[00:51:40] Alex: And good enough is good enough.
[00:51:45] good product
[00:51:45] Brian: do we have a good, product? Do we have a good product?
[00:51:47] Troy: got a good product.
[00:51:48] Alex: Great.
[00:51:49] Troy: a friend of mine came over the other night, and he had just been. At some mall on his way out to Shelter Island, and he gidley ran into the house with his kids and showed me his new toaster. And he said, I bought the best toaster on the market and it's kind of hippie-ish household.
but he has to do stuff like this on the side and kind of sneak it in cuz it's a computer controlled toaster. I think it has an app. It may not have an app who needs an app for a toaster, but I think the toaster was called a Revolution Cooking Toaster. And it has a big screen on the front and it has all these kind of crazy features that it can, toast perfectly and all these different settings.
But the one thing it doesn't have is a feature that my toaster has that I think is a part or the reason it's a good product and I have a toaster. It's not one of those kind of big heavy steel, sub-zero toasters. Those are nice. Or that other one that everybody used to have the big kind of industrial type.
It's a Breville. But it has a button on it that I think is cool cuz I use it and it's maybe a button designed for the impatient and it's called Lift and look so in the old days I would pop the toast before it was ready to see if it was done and then pop it back down because I'm kind of impatient or you were worried that it was over toasting or under toasting or whatever.
This has a really simple solution for that, which is a button that says Lift and look. You push it, it pops up, you have a gander and it, goes back down and
you feel satisfied to know what's going on inside of there.
And
[00:53:15] Brian: That's what they're selling.
[00:53:16] Troy: yeah, it's, called Lift and look.
It's on the Breville Toaster. I think it's a good feature.
[00:53:20] Brian: good.
It's not a product, but it's a feature. But that's good.
[00:53:22] Alex: That's great. felt inspired by that I might, that toaster
thing that they do here in Austria. Cause I wanted to bring a Euro thing, you know, and everything runs really well in Austria. It's so efficient. One thing they do, which is so great is that a lot of the car charger out here in Vienna don't have a cable coming out of it. It's bring your own cable. So it's just a plug that you plug in.
Well, you know, in the US it's like you always have these cables and they get all tangled up and they get all broken. Here it's just like a box where you plug
in your cable, you
[00:53:49] Troy: That's nice.
[00:53:50] Brian: Yeah, that is cool.
[00:53:52] Alex: just
genius. Right?
It's an
easy
[00:53:54] Brian: I have, one good product from France, and that is Payton. I'm a big Payton fan. I, stayed in the outskirts of Cannes away from all the hustle and bustle and the bulls courts there become like when the sun goes down, everyone comes out. It's multi-generational.
Everyone can play ton. It's basically bocce at the end of the day.
[00:54:15] Troy: What's the difference between Paton and Bachi? I have a
Bachi
[00:54:17] Alex: Hey,
[00:54:18] Troy: Can I play Paton
[00:54:19] Alex: hey. Well, let tell
you, lemme tell you
first of all, Pitton, the only thing you need to know about Pitton
is that you played with steel balls
[00:54:26] Brian: Yeah.
[00:54:27] Alex: more satisfying than the
sound of
two steels against each
[00:54:31] Troy: But does it have to be wider
[00:54:32] Brian: no.
[00:54:33] Troy: court
shape or something like
[00:54:35] Brian: Yeah.
The only thing I don't like about Ponic, and this is a
more
modern version of it, I'm just like a draw a line in the dirt guy and then just throw the steel balls. And now they have these little rubber circles that you have to stand in. And there's different techniques I noticed is some guys go with the, and it's mostly the guys that do this like that with the squat technique where they get real low to the ground and then everyone underhand it.
Unless you're trying to knock, the ball out, then you go total
aerial.
[00:55:00] Troy: do the over the hand one
[00:55:02] Brian: Yeah. That's the one,
that one, that's the,
[00:55:04] Alex: That's what you have to do.
[00:55:06] Brian: Yeah.
Yeah.
[00:55:07] Alex: You throw a little wooden ball
[00:55:08] Brian: Yeah.
[00:55:09] Alex: that ball is called the cnet,
which means the little pig.
[00:55:12] Brian: Oh, that's fun.
[00:55:13] Alex: it's everything about, it's great.
It should be in the Olympics.
[00:55:16] Brian: I totally agree with that. And the idea that pickleball is popular, more popular than this is, Idiotic.
[00:55:21] Troy: this one doesn't require much, exertion does it?
[00:55:24] Brian: that's great. You can smoke and you can drink 1660 fours with it.
And I saw some people, Pringles came out
[00:55:30] Alex: the way. it is a game that glass of past
while playing. It's fucking,
[00:55:36] Troy: You know
what they
[00:55:36] Alex: great
[00:55:37] Troy: my country?
[00:55:38] Brian: bowling,
[00:55:38] Troy: Curling.
[00:55:39] Brian: wow,
[00:55:40] Troy: Curling. You can drink beer and curl. Yeah,
[00:55:43] Brian: stresses me out. Like even watching it on
the Olympics. Yeah,
[00:55:46] Alex: Yeah. Yeah.
Curling involves sweeping. That's
weird.
[00:55:49] Brian: mean it's all optimization. It's basically all you're doing.
[00:55:52] Troy: a curling club when I was growing up and they had custom sweaters. Really nice
[00:55:56] Brian: That's cool.
By the way. Curling is an spectator sport. If you can go watch a curling
[00:56:01] Alex: situation, you
have to go.
[00:56:03] Brian: the other reason I like Payton is there are no, set teams. There's no leagues, people just show up and then they play Payton and that's it.
[00:56:10] Troy: But you know, Brian, you know what I gotta say? what's the, there's Tonka and what's, what are the variations of it? Uh,
[00:56:17] Brian: bulls. Bulls is a
category. I think I'm like outta my,
over my
skis.
[00:56:23] Troy: here, cornholes more popular, that's an alternative,
isn't it?
[00:56:27] Brian: I mean,
[00:56:28] Alex: Yeah.
Yeah.
I like cornhole.
[00:56:30] Brian: you're more sophisticated
than that. Troy, get a Bulls
court.
[00:56:34] Troy: I have
one.
[00:56:34] Brian: Yeah, you do.
[00:56:36] Alex: the nice thing about cornhole is that you can set it up anywhere. You know, you don't need a specific patch of dirt,
but Pitton is satisfying. You can play it.
You can like
play backyard
[00:56:44] Brian: is the problem with cornhole because there's a lack of civil society in America, and I do worry about AI and the loneliness, epidemic. just like making it even worse. And what I really do appreciate with, the French, is that they all come out, it's a very community driven, activity and they connect multi-generational
And I don't care if they're smoking, they're gonna probably live longer and live, live happier lives because they're connecting with like other people. And I think that Americans do often, like simply don't. And that AI and VR and stuff like this is gonna cause like major issues. I know, I'm like the Andy Rooney here, but
[00:57:20] Alex: I'm, I'm with you. I think it's a beautiful place to end it on and a beautiful sentiment. And I did miss you. And, one day we'll record a
podcast in Cannes while playing
[00:57:30] outro
[00:57:30] Brian: Yeah, I'd
[00:57:30] Alex: in person,
[00:57:31] Brian: Awesome. All right. All right, let's wrap it
up.
[00:57:33] Alex: guys both look
fantastic.
[00:57:35] Brian: Ah, you
too.
[00:57:37] Alex: You did
a great,
[00:57:38] Brian: I have a South of
France glow. I don't know if you noticed that. You get a different tan there. Like my wife
[00:57:43] Alex: Oh yeah.
[00:57:44] Brian: your tan is different than it was in
Miami. That was like a sad, weird middle-aged tan, but now
you look like,
you know,
healthy glow.
[00:57:51] Alex: mm-hmm.
[00:57:52] Troy: You do look good, Brian.
[00:57:53] Brian: Yeah.
[00:57:53] Alex: It's, It's, all that secondhand cigarette
smoke and oysters,
[00:57:56] Brian: Yeah. I love it. All right. Thanks guys.
[00:57:59] Troy: Thank you.
[00:58:00] Alex:


PVA S1E42
PVA S1E42
[00:00:00] Cold open
​
[00:00:00] Alex: I was flying back from Miami as I'm want to do, I was sitting in Comfort Plus I rant, I'm not gonna say his name he's an avid, people versus algorithms listener. And he was seated right across from me, this, high Powered publishing executive.
[00:00:14] Brian: And what I noted, other than I was glad to see him, was that he was in Comfort Plus. And I think that's symbolic
[00:00:19] Troy: Couldn't
be that high powered.
[00:00:20] Brian: The future is, Comfort Plus it's not at the front of the plane for,
[00:00:23] Alex: know, who wasn't in comfort Plus, this 22 year old who just raised a billion dollars for his AI startup that's about to eat publishing
[00:00:31] Brian: Okay. Yeah. Well
[00:00:33] Troy: it's like you're proud of eating at Applebee's.
[00:00:37] Brian:
[00:00:59] Welcome start
[00:00:59] Brian: Welcome to People Versus Algorithms, a show about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Marcey, founder of rebooting, and each week I'm joined by Investor and longtime media executive, Troy Young and Alex Schleifer, c e o of Universal Entities and noted advertising Thought Leader. The Open Web has been synonymous with the internet since it became commercially viable.
It's a broad term that accomplishes a set of protocols for how the web, or at least how it was intended, would function. And in my view, focusing on the technical specifications of the open web is a disservice because protocols are established in service of principles and ideology. And to my mind, the Open web was part of the utopian ideology underpinning the original internet.
The key principles of the open web were, and our openness, interoperability, and decentralization. Now the shorthand for that is that the web was meant to do away with analog media gatekeepers and to give birth to a era of abundance of high quality information and entertainment that would be freely accessible.
Underpinning all of this were format the webpage distribution, mostly search and monetization advertising, and I would argue all three of these critical features of the open web are in retreat. Business models are destiny and it's hard to see a workable forward facing strategy around webpages and advertising.
Instead, the open web already under assault from the success of the so-called walled gardens of Web 2.0 is in terminal decline. as it fades in importance and its central role in the internet, dissipates AI is poised to deliver a further blow to the open web as it floods the internet with infinite content.
Much of it complete crap. And Google is forced to adapt its search approach in ways that are hard to see how they will benefit the open web. In fact, it's easier to see how a chat focus search paradigm firmly leaves behind the 10 Blue Links era. and it will be a mortal blow to the open web. As we see with the moves from Twitter and Reddit, the revealing wins are for publishers and platforms to move away from anonymity and free access to authentication and subscriptions.
What's more open? Web advertising is hard and bound to get harder as addressable audiences dwindle and the disappearance of the third party cookie and other changes to the digital economy in the name of privacy, take hold. So this week we discussed the fate of the open web and whether it would join other institutions that are under strain and what it means for those in the media business who have cast their lots with the open web.
If you enjoy the show, and I hope you do, please leave us a rating and a review on Apple, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts. As Alex notes podcasts are one of the last vibrant bastions of the open web, so who knows how long that will last before AI takes over making them.
But in the meantime, please do leave us a rating and review. Here's our conversation.
[00:03:43] Welcome end
[00:03:43] Brian: I think we should talk this week about like institutional decay. but I think institutions are on the run across all of society. But I think within digital media, the ultimate institution is, in terminal decline, and that's the open web.
I think the open web's best days are clearly behind it. And I don't think it's saveable. I mean, we saw this with Twitter, and Elon Musk, didn't get enough attention for the last few weeks, so they started rate limiting. I got rate limited and I was like, thank God it's gonna keep me off this freaking thing.
[00:04:11] Alex: Wait, wait, wait. What do you mean you got rate limited?
[00:04:13] Brian: so it was like I couldn't read tweets. I was like, I'm in Miami, it's fine. I should be doing something other than reading tweets. And they're battling against bots and also against ai. They're locking down the tweets.
We're gonna push everyone who uses Tweet deck to be a subscriber, and it's clearly part of the shift. Cuz when you talk about the open web, you talk about advertising. At the end of the day, the open web has been fueled by advertising, and the weaknesses of digital advertising has basically led to, I think, the inevitability of the decline and fall of the open web. that's my theory. Troy, what do you think?
Well, I think for a while we risked having this show becoming an AI show, and now it's, kind of death of Media slash Open web show. Well, they're related.
[00:04:56] Alex: It's all the same story, Troy.
[00:04:58] Brian: It's a moment for sure. I would agree with you, Brian. we've talked about it too many times now, but,You're really
selling the episode.
[00:05:04] Troy: Well, no,
[00:05:05] Brian: Stick with us
for another 45 minutes
everyone.
[00:05:07] Troy: Okay, so let's work on something together. Totally unrehearsed, right? Let's talk about a system that used to exist that was stable, A media system.
What did that look like? And then we moved to something underpinned by the open web. Everybody tried to sort of figure out how to game it, how to make money from it, how to scale around it, how to raise money around it. So that was a system that you're now saying is breaking down. And I think it's our responsibility to kind of hypothesize about what comes out of that and is it better or could it be better?
And what would our ideas be around that? because I thought about this the other day, I was thinking, So cable was great, right? I mean, I guess it was kind of great. if you were an executive at a cable network, it was great. if you were a consumer, it was kind of not great, but it was okay, you bought the bundle, you got the shit that you wanted, you were excited when a new channel came out, got a couple hundred channels, right?
It was a very stable system and you couldn't get into it unless you were ordained. someone had to let you in, And if they let you in, you got to be part of the spinal cord. Like you got to be part of the system. You were in the directory, you got the carriage fees, you got the advertising, you got the viewership, or at least some viewership or a right, at least to cash the check.
And then we went to the open web and we said, anybody can make anything. And the only thing that's gonna tie this together is search. and you can kind of game search by getting, prefer, you can try to get, get into that system by optimizing your content or however you wanna look at it, making good content, gaming the system or whatever.
And if that doesn't work, you can pay to get in with like sem, And I'm not even including social, I'm just looking at search. So what happened is the wonderful explosion of creativity. You could be a writer, Brian, you could create your little enterprise. Everybody could make things. There were bloggers, there were, influencers, lots of new media companies.
Everybody started to creating old media, said we gotta get in on the game, all of that. And then now something happened. So what happened? What happened was, I guess the center sucked all of the money out of the system then, The other parts of the ad ecosystem that were not performance based started to atrophy,
And now we're seeing, problems with yield and advertisers don't really care enough to go direct and spend premium dollars on, publishers. So that all fell apart and then not, it didn't fall apart, it just got worse. And then people said, well fuck that. I'm just gonna go out and get subscribers.
So we're gonna put our energy towards putting up walls, blocking people. Now this includes now preventing AI from coming in, And we're putting walls around everything. So it's almost like kind of AOL now. you gotta knock before you come in. that means that lots of people that were based on that 2.0 model are struggling to figure out what's next.
And really a whole, it's hard for us. Brian, you and I in particular, because we grew up with a whole generation of people that made a living on that model. Right. then AI comes along. I mean, just to add maybe a little bit of more drama, AI comes along and says, we're gonna fuck the whole thing up and we're going to eat your content without giving you credit for it.
And then people go and talk about it like, Diller and Robert Thompson and anybody that will listen, is proclaiming that AI is about to kill media if it's not already sort of in tremendous duress. So I'm wondering this is where I'll, I'll pause and maybe you guys can help fill it in, but it's almost like those people.
This was true in the, Canadian legislation, they want to return to system one, which is the broker, the person at the middle, the institution at the middle, be it a cable company or Google. Now hands out money to everybody. They say, you are a news organization. We will define what a news organization is and you will therefore receive compensation for, your position in our directory, if that makes sense.
Right.
[00:09:03] Brian: Yeah, but
the government is gonna be the referee. I mean, in this idea, I don't think it's a good idea, I don't think the government getting involved in news is generally a great idea. Generally doesn't go well. and it becomes a political insider game. Right.
[00:09:16] Troy: well, why? Because you have to be anointed. Because in the case of Canada, the C R T C has to.
[00:09:21] Brian: Yeah,
[00:09:22] Troy: has to say that you are a legitimate news organization or whatever. because there's a system that's administered by the government, which is how you get paid.
[00:09:30] Brian: yeah, yeah. I mean, that just doesn't work in the United States. We just, we don't, we hate the government.
I don't know how else to put it.
[00:09:35] Alex: but
you hate the government because it's ineffectual. Because it,
[00:09:39] Brian: it's a whole like history, culture
[00:09:41] Alex: I, know, but I, I keep hearing that about the states, like,we can't make things work because we're the US some of the stuff that Troy is talking about might require solutions that,you might be uncomfortable with.
[00:09:52] Brian: No, no, no. I understand that. And I think that there is a case for, I mean, look, we're also in a time when the government is more involved in the economy than has been in really multiple generations. Really. absolutely. Since, Ronald Reagan, I mean, we did not have industrial policy.
We would always mock Europe for their industrial policy and look, look what we have. We have industrial policy now, so the government is gonna be more involved in the economy. The Republicans have a different way that it's gonna be more involved, but than the Democrats. But that, that is true. I just don't think in the United States, it is difficult for me to believe that the government is the answer to fixing news as a sustainable business.
I
don't see that happening.
[00:10:29] Alex: like you said, the government's getting more involved anyway. Some judge just passed a law that doesn't allow federal agencies to talk to social networks just passed today or something. it all comes back
to
AI though, I think.
[00:10:40] Troy: to be clear, they, they didn't
[00:10:41] Alex: yeah, he's some Trump appointed law.
It's
[00:10:44] Brian: guy in
Florida,
right? Mississippi. Where is he? Mississippi, Florida.
[00:10:47] Alex: But to me it just shows that both sides want to get involved with this shit. So it's gonna happen whether we like it or not. the thing that's going to, I think, force our hand is AI is going to need a lot of regulation, if AI gets regulated, that means media gets regulated.
AI is going to be the new pipes, right? It's going to be the new airwaves, that need to be regulated. and everybody seems to be into it. Even the people running AI companies want, want that regulation to happen apparently. so it's gonna happen. but what happens to the open web?
I think the open web itself, In the state that it was in, like when it first started, which is a, the ability to launch a website and share stuff with your friends. All that stuff is going to remain, but there's not gonna be any business happening on it, that's for sure. Right.
I think it's going to be
[00:11:31] Troy: What do, what do you guys, what, what, what? What's, what is going on here?
[00:11:35] Brian: Don't lump me in with Alex. I think even
[00:11:38] Troy: I've Well, but first you proclaim this, this episode was, was named the, what? What'd you call it? It's a death of institutions and the first one, the big one is the open web. So the open web is dying.
Why
is
[00:11:49] Brian: Oh, it's dead. It's
dead. it's dead.
[00:11:51] Alex: hang on. I, I don't think the open
web, I don't think
the
open web is
[00:11:54] Troy: And then Alex said you can't monetize on the open. I, I shop on the open web all day long.
[00:11:58] Brian: No, it's got CB Radio isn't dead. My CB radio's still around.
[00:12:02] Troy: I don't shop on CB radio.
[00:12:05] Alex: but Troy, do you think, I mean, we're all speculating here. I don't fucking know what's gonna happen. But there's, there's multiple pressures happening, right? There's multiple pressures that are causing, the, the people who own any type of content or data to start closing their doors and requiring some sort of, registration for their access, whether it's free or paid, whatever that is.
people are, closing their doors. I mean, Twitter you know, you're unable to find any tweet on Google right now because of the way they're acting. I don't know if that's going to continue, but that's one pressure. The second pressure is that there's going to be so much generated content that's going to be put onto the unregulated open web, and that will make the web itself, kind of useless unless you have a destination.
It's going to make, searching the web really difficult. It's going to be using the web really difficult. It's going to become potentially like Usenet. so that pressure is going to make the open web worth for business. I think. on the other side, we have other open systems that are potentially interesting, such as a system that this new, Facebook Meta Threads is going to use.
[00:13:04] Brian: Right. That's a centralized system. What
[00:13:06] Alex: well, it's, it's going, it's going to be a centralized system, but they'll be using Activity Pub, which is an open standards for a social pub. so technically all the stuff that you read on Thread, you'll be able to read on Mastodon or,
or, or other
[00:13:18] Troy: wait.
[00:13:19] Alex: of clients,
[00:13:20] Troy: Let's be, clear with the audience here. So what we're saying is the Open Web is still potentially an authenticated open web, You can have the open web and you can be authenticated,
[00:13:30] Alex: correct?
[00:13:30] Troy: right? You can
[00:13:31] Alex: not open
[00:13:32] Troy: web.
Oh no, you content is not free anymore.
[00:13:36] Alex: Well, it doesn't even have to. it can absolutely be free, but it is gated, which means that it cannot be just like, scanned and shared and remixed in the way that it was before. when stuff starts getting to be pulled away from Google the highway into the open web is Google that's the thing where everybody branches off from, to get into their open web adventures.
But from, Twitter to Reddit to every single site, they're kind of starting to, pull away from the open web, and put gates up.
[00:14:01] Brian: Yeah. This is an acceleration, right? I mean, the App store really started this, and this is just, to me it's just, it's been going on forever and I think it's hard for people of our age, I heard a lot of people are not gonna miss the open web because the open web itself, I think you could say was something of a failure and that
it didn't live up to, its
[00:14:19] Troy: It's,
[00:14:20] Alex: Well, I mean, I think that's kind
[00:14:21] Brian: I blame the Web 2.0
[00:14:22] Troy: the
[00:14:23] Brian: for selling a bill of goods
[00:14:24] Troy: Hold it, hold it, hold it. What,
[00:14:26] Alex: on, man.
[00:14:27] Troy: what is going on here? First of all, what was the bill? The billing? Who?
[00:14:31] Brian: Oh, oh, oh yeah. So the promise was that we were gonna, like the gatekeepers, were gonna go away and we were gonna have this flourishing in which anybody could create great content that would attract great audiences, it would be super niche, and there would be great business models.
everything would be free. Oh my God, it would be Christmas. Everything was gonna be free and it was gonna be supported by advertising because Mary Meeker had a slide and it showed a gap between time spent and like budget spent. And those lines would meet and everyone would make money and it would be wonderful
And it never happened. It just became this game in which Google set up toll booth and took all the money and then Facebook came around and took, some more of the money and then Amazon came, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. And it's been a disaster for
publishers
disaster. And are we more informed?
Do you honestly think that society is more informed now than it was before the quote unquote Open web? The open web is a failure.
[00:15:24] Alex: the promise was there and remained there for longest time. It was just ruined by, corporations. But, you know, don't, blame the open web for that. The nerds
were right. They just got, look,
man, I
don't know
I
don't know what you're saying. I mean, yet here you
are as an independent content producer, running a podcast in independently and meeting people on the airplane that are powerful executives on premiering economy with you talking about this podcast we're creating without having to ask permission for it.
I
[00:15:51] Troy: Thank you. Thank you, Alex. I think it's a nice, tidy argument. I think you're wrong. I think if I looked at people that are, were raised like my son, who's very well informed and was raised on the open web, meaning he got his news from sources like Reddit and made his way around this crazy,
[00:16:09] Brian: He had a feral childhood in
[00:16:11] Troy: Childhood.
[00:16:12] Alex: Sure.
[00:16:14] Troy: And he has a maybe slightly unconventional but interesting perspective on the world that isn't controlled by. A single media outlet like it used to be. So I don't, I don't think it's a failed experiment other than that, the Open Web is just a collection of protocols that allows you to build things that, connect different systems together.
Like, you know, and by the way, if you wanna create content right now, today, not only on this podcast, but video on TikTok or, do a tweet or
[00:16:41] Brian: TikTok is not the open web. TikTok is not the open web. Nope. Yeah. You're feeding some algorithm and Yes, that is the version. Like there's gonna be elements of the open web. I'm just saying that the original conception of it didn't seem to really work out for anyone.
[00:16:54] Troy: okay. But just, it's, maybe good to kind of define that a bit. Your conception of it is, what? Free content supported by banners.
[00:17:01] Brian: pretty much, yeah.
[00:17:02] Troy: Okay.
That didn't work very Well, Well, let's,
[00:17:04] Alex: let's, actually define it. This is an interesting exercise. I don't know if the content needs to be free, but for me, the open web is defined by being cross-linked so that you can navigate from one part of the open web freely to the other side of it, and read and consume content as you go along.
Now, hey, the second,money needs to be made and it's not a hundred percent as supported, and you start asking for registration, that system breaks down, which is why a lot of RSS readers or news readers are kind of broken systems because you click on something and it doesn't actually open up and that's just gonna get worse.
I agree with that side. So web technologies themselves, the idea of websites, that stuff is becoming much more and more, I think useful because you can create really interesting things with AI and new technologies, but this open meandering web that is interconnected, that stuff, you know, run on API's, ability to have different tools to read different,news articles, that stuff is going away.
I think podcasts are the last open systems and look at how podcasts are doing. They're doing fucking
[00:18:04] Troy: But, but guys, but guys, it's useful. I can still send you a link to a TikTok. I still benefit tremendously from Wikipedia. links are still part of the currency of how we communicate today. You're talking about a small group of people that previously made a living one way where that key monetization mechanism is under pressure.
That's
[00:18:26] Alex: Yeah. I think Brian probably hung out with too many ad execs crying in bathrooms, in cans. Right.
[00:18:34] Brian: I'm crying in bathrooms. They're doing different things in bathrooms. I think
[00:18:38] Alex: I, but I think maybe to reframe it, this old model of you get on Google, you have access to a ton of information. it's all clearly labeled. but you can hop around, you can access it for free. That stuff is going to go away more and more, and you're going to start needing to log into things more, pay for things more.
I think what, what happens there is that. maybe owning the brand and owning the destination becomes much more important than owning all the mechanisms to get people to meander into your destination. Like a podcast like this becomes, well, I think
[00:19:11] Troy: Well,
[00:19:11] Brian: Wait,
does this become more valuable?
[00:19:12] Alex: a hundred percent
[00:19:14] Troy: I'll summarize it for you. it's a punt and what it is, is it says brand and direct connections become more important than referrals from distribution hubs. it's naive and,
[00:19:26] Brian: Nobody types in people's like URLs.
[00:19:29] Troy: it's never happened in the history. Well, I mean, maybe it
happened when the newspaper was delivered to your house, but they never typed in anything.
It came to you and there was one provider in your
[00:19:38] Alex: right. But I, I guess what I'm saying is that there, there was a huge economy of, the web, which was. People making sense of links, sending traffic into each other's sites, So that's what the web was, right? It was a bunch of blue links, some of those blue links, people would make, tiny bit of money if somebody clicked on it.
And then you navigated the web through free links and paid links, and that stuff, is likely not sticking around because a lot of these sites are going to lose a lot of their value. the corpus of information that Google has as far as links goes, becomes a little less valuable as unlimited content gets generated.
I mean, I'm talking to people who are literally generating a hundred thousand pages a day with ai, And putting them out into this
[00:20:21] Brian: Oh my God, a hundred thousand
pages a day.
[00:20:24] Alex: that environment's going to get ruined. And it's not Turning into CB Radio is going to turn into one of those, streets in New York where you have posters stuck on top of posters stuck on top of posters.
it's just, you're not gonna be able to glean any useful information. And then people
[00:20:39] Brian: But who, so who wins in this? I guess my question is I mean obviously tech platforms always win, what is then a hopeful future for let's just presume all of this comes to pass and however you wanna define it, the open web declines in importance to the point where
it's not the
central
[00:20:56] Alex: I think, this is potentially healthy, you have these incredible businesses like CNET that we've talked about, but if you look at cnet, 95% of CNET is, bullshit, kind of evergreen content that they're feeding
[00:21:08] Brian: it's probably never been more profitable than it is
now,
[00:21:11] Troy: never. Well, no, but you guys, you, you
guys, it's not,
actually.
[00:21:16] Brian: it's not
profitable now.
[00:21:17] Troy: I don't think it's nearly as profitable as it was. It's suffering from the same pressures as all publishers I don't know. I would call it an incredible business. It's nowhere near what it was in terms
of its profitability
[00:21:29] Brian: okay, that
wasn't my point. My point is that like it got sent off to the SEO glue factory, like most brands, inevitably do, and the reality is this messed up ecosystem, it's better to own a bunch of mattress commerce sites than it is to create
quote unquote, premium content
and sell ads against it.
[00:21:48] Alex: just stop creating this junk content that is just there to kind of feed that, link making money off other links. I think that's going to be flooded, that's going to be junk. But if you look at stuff like, what the New York Times is doing, they have incredible properties that people will go there that are destinations like the wire cutter, like not even their main New York Times shit,
And they're doubling down on audio. They're doubling down on like real brands, real people. and I think you can build su successful businesses out that, but if you're still in the SEO game or trying to sell credit cards to people, that stuff is going to be gone. that's actually a
[00:22:21] Troy: No it's not. No, it's not. First of all, I thought we agreed not to talk about SEO content as glue factory
[00:22:30] Brian: It's somewhere between intent and SEO glue factor. We'll have to come up with some sort of compromise.
[00:22:35] Troy: I don't know. I'd ask you, every time you think about Googling something, niche or weird to solve a problem, you end up on a lot of that content. The best of it can be tremendously useful, how do I change, I don't know. Fuck, whatever you're looking for,
how do I do something in my home?
[00:22:51] Alex: but
that's YouTube.
That's not, that's not a webpage that's gone. That
[00:22:55] Troy: that's
gone. stuff's gone.
[00:22:56] Alex: any search
[00:22:57] Brian: It's arbitrage. Every like model that's worked in digital media has been a form of arbitrage.
[00:23:02] Troy: okay, let's return to the arbitrage thing in a second.
[00:23:04] Brian: Okay.
[00:23:05] Troy: But because Al, what did you say? so you said that, most content online is a glue factory that's going away. Alex said that we're gonna be inundated by crappy stuff like that. I mean, someone's gonna have to deal with a filter for content that doesn't serve a need.
the center of the system will have to arbitrate what content is worth your time and what's not.
[00:23:25] Alex: here's maybe the issue, Troy, right now, the interface to access content is one interface to access all this content. So you go to Google if you wanna read the news, if you wanna find something funny, if you wanna see the best 10 episodes of friends ranked in order, if you wanna fix your fucking tv, whatever that is,
A lot of that information, is, going to be just swallowed up by some AI model. So you'll ask the question, it'll just answer A lot of this, how do I do X? All of that stuff's going away. and that is actually. A lot of what media's been doing is padding their content output with a lot of this shit, which is not, it's not right.
It's not great writing, it's not, it's just content, And every media company has been saying, okay, well let's list all the top 10 RAM prices, and here's when all these, video games are being really all this content, which is actually super generic and shouldn't be part of a media property.
All that stuff's going to be out on the internet for free. And even though these pages used to generate a dollar and now are generating 10 cents, that number is going to zero. So all that stuff is going to be gobbled up by ai, regenerated, regurgitated, whatever. Then the rest is like, okay, well then what does a media company do?
Why should a media company spend any time on this type of content? Which genuinely is, for places like CNET is 80, 90% of their content, they don't do any real reporting anymore. So what I'm saying is that stuff is gone. That's the big open web stuff that they were participating in. That's gone.
So what do they do? They need to just do better, and less and more focused and, make value that gets people to go there directly rather than try to beat other folks out in the SEO games by flooding the system. That's
[00:25:00] Brian: this sounds reasonable. Troy, why is that reasonable? This sounds very hopeful view.
[00:25:04] Troy: Well, first of all, that knowledge changes constantly. there's a need to make that type of content.
[00:25:09] Alex: I don't think it is created by the media companies today. It is just regurgitated, it is created by the corpus of data being created on social and all these things. For sure.
[00:25:18] Brian: Yeah.
[00:25:19] Troy: Right. So the stuff that we call evergreen content half of it's been taken by the AI machine and half of it's created on a continual basis by individuals. That's what you're saying. That's kind of, and then media
[00:25:32] Alex: Correct.
[00:25:32] Troy: a place there.
[00:25:33] Alex: No, but there's also no money for them. what media started doing is seeing that there was content that naturally existed and was created on the internet, like how to Fix my glasses. And they thought you know what we can do is we can use our huge SEO juice that we already have and all.
And all these pages. We can make a cent and then let's make a million of those. And then that became the business model.
That's C
[00:25:55] Brian: Yeah, it was the thing that, I guess my point is like arbitrage, and maybe it's me being naive, it's like, okay, you got this quote unquote authority based on, being an authority in this area, and now you're trying to basically take that and arbitrage it to something that's much more commercially viable.
And oh, by the way, you can pay to create it once. Maybe you have to like gussy it up every now and again, but it's super high margin, way higher margin than the stuff that actually got you the quote unquote authority. I don't blame, you know, look, it's the game, but like the game is changing, it
[00:26:26] Troy: Well, it's not really higher margin, it's that the game changed. if you could make margin the same way as you used to, you would, you would still be doing that.
margin dried up in one place. And this seemed like a logical place to move because you could do it and then you, you're right, you exploited your brand.
So that when you said the top 10 episodes of, friends, you did it under the banner of an ad that had some authority or of a brand that had some
authority.
[00:26:50] Alex: every tech, media, you know, tech publication, every time there's an iOS update, we will pick out every new feature and it'll say how to change your background, how to install the update, all that stuff is content that is just repeated. And so much of the content on the internet is just stuff that's repeated with a brand slapped on top of it.
That stuff needs to go, but that's going to change the economics. And I think when Brian talks about the open web, it's, the open web as far as it goes for media. I, I think the rest of the world is going to keep using the open web in really exciting ways. I think that's, going to remain a fun place, if you have, the stomach for it.
[00:27:26] Brian: That sounds
[00:27:26] Alex: but, but, that, model of Google and, links paying you a sense and people being just bounced around and generating a little bit of money and traffic for everyone, that stuff's gotta go. I don't think there's any money in
[00:27:40] Troy: Yeah, I just think so what you said is, it's kind of hard to disagree with it. but I think that it's more complicated than that because you're talking about basic service content or basic evergreen content. What about what happens with news? News is different. Do you agree?
[00:27:56] Brian: Yeah,
for sure.
[00:27:57] Alex: I
[00:27:57] Troy: Okay. So does that mean that if you were, maybe the New York Times is, is such an outlier, not a good example, but if you were the LA Times, you decided that the only way that you could make money was to appeal to a market that existed outside of your local, I mean, you had to participate in the national story or the international story,
You had to own, domain expertise around entertainment. And you had to be a thoughtful news provider like the New York Times is across the board because that's the only way that you could build an audience that was big enough to fill your funnels and, pay yourselves with advertising.
how does this change, the game for news providers?
[00:28:36] Brian: I would say this with news providers. Take the LA Times example. Why does Jay Penske, why did he,end up basically monopolizing the four year consideration ad dollars? Why didn't the LA Times, why didn't they buy deadline? Why didn't they buy Hollywood Reporter? Why didn't they go into like B2B and look at themselves a lot broader?
So a lot of the problems that these newspapers in particular face, they brought it on themselves by not changing and they coasted for way too long. And that leads to being lazy. They had a basic monopoly of the local market and that made them fat and lazy and they have reaped the whirlwind. So
[00:29:12] Alex: I think that outside of these mega publications like the New York Times, who might build a brand, that's so broad that it kind of like applies to many things. I think you need to start becoming a destination. if you told me the LA Times, if, you want anything around Hollywood, movies or local LA stuff, that makes sense.
I think they could own that. I'm not going to go to the LA Times to see what's happening in the fucking, France uprising or what's happening in Ukraine, I might bump into that if I'm reading something else, but I think destination is really important.
Like know why you're going to a specific place and, as this stuff is so expensive, I think a lot of these guys are going to start becoming much less broad and start owning the stuff that they can own. Because what's going to happen to news. And very likely this could be the thing that says Twitter, if they get around to it, is that news is constantly generated by people everywhere, Like Twitter is actually a great place to see what's happening live. And if you have, access to that data with an AI, and you can in real time, collect the news and update people individually in a way that they like, you're not going to go to the LA Times for news the same way you don't
go to
newspapers right now to read how the stocks did.
that stuff is all going away. Like every day. Somebody right now says, here's how the stock market did. And they'll write all the stuff, Or, newspapers used to have the times where ships would come in or all that stuff. that's Yellow Pages, all that stuff is gone
so if I was a publication that says, what do we own, what do people want to come to us for and what can we be uniquely good at? Everything else? Stop wasting your time on. You're not going to make any SEO
money on it. Nobody's gonna read
[00:30:47] Brian: it's kind of, cliche, but it's about being essential at the end of the day. I think where local news and news in general sort of went adrift, is they didn't maintain their essentialness, I guess, in people's lives. And if you look at like the gannet or McClatchy or anything, you look at these local sites and they're regurgitating the titillating stuff from around the web
[00:31:08] Alex: But it's, that's because the, business model, whether it was print or then it got carried over to the web is the more pages. Literally the more pages of shit you had, the more stuff you could put on the pages and the more money you could make off them. With newspapers is you could buy a block of ad and with pages is you could get maybe, 10,000 people to look at your how to uninstall iOS 14 and make $4 on it.
that stuff's gone
in in the next five years. It's going to zero. I think that's great. All that stuff is useless. It's waste, it's landfill. Great. I'm happy.
[00:31:40] Brian: Troy, you seem less happy.
[00:31:43] Alex: Yeah.
[00:31:44] Brian: Troy's popping Zen.
[00:31:45] Alex: Troy's
lobbying for the glue factories.
[00:31:47] Brian: I know. He's like, hold on a sec. I think I recount this. One of my favorite like early career moments with someone at some IAB event was talking about the crappy banner ad and like Sky Run ad Network stood up and was like, I take offense to that. This industry was built off crappy banner ads, so let's not be smirch the crappy banner ad.
[00:32:07] Alex: I mean, Troy, where's your hat at?
[00:32:08] Troy: I was
[00:32:08] Brian: Just gimme
[00:32:09] Troy: this all started.
[00:32:10] Brian: by 60,
[00:32:11] Troy:
[00:32:11] Brian: is that what
the
[00:32:12] Troy: think
[00:32:13] Brian: by 60? I don't even
remember.
[00:32:15] Troy: the digital landfill point is irrefutable my summary on the whole thing is there's a culling going on and through that, I think a lot of the stuff that you call non-essential can be done well and there will be providers of that content.
And I think it exists along a continuum. It's not either a, how to install, iOS or, a take from the New York Times. there's a lot of area in between all of that that people will provide. It will be increasingly. I like your, what did you call it?
Essential. I think that's a great word for it. you're gonna have to be known for something and we're all gonna be less reliant on a traffic system that could be gamed. and we talked about this before, it's kind of getting old that in the process of the aspirations of digital media companies will be moderated significantly.
[00:33:07] Brian: Welcome to Comfort Plus. That's what I'm saying. It's fine. It's fine there. You can still use the business class restroom. Just don't be obnoxious about it. Just slip up, do your business, and go slink back to 11 C. It's okay.
[00:33:20] Troy: Okay.
[00:33:21] Alex: media.
[00:33:21] Troy: Just,
yep.
[00:33:23] Brian: All right. Let's talk about the FTC going after Amazon, cuz this is another sort of institution of, of digital media. Like if you think about Google basically ran the content side through search but I think on the commerce side it was Amazon and Amazon. Like Google. If you look at the rankings of trusted brands, they both are at the top.
I think a lot of the struggle of modern antitrust and modern antitrust is going after both Google and, and Amazon and others. But like those two in particular is that a lot of the quote unquote harm that is being alleged is hard for consumers to see. and the old antitrust playbook of where's the consumer harm doesn't really apply I think in the view of Alina Kahn or others who are taking a more expansive view of antitrust.
So apparently the FTC is about to prepare a big case, not like one of these little ones where they just try to get a couple hundred million dollars of fines against Amazon for how it runs its marketplace and how it squelches competition there and does nefarious things like, oh, it'd be a shame if you didn't end up as a recommended product cuz you didn't buy enough ads.
That would be terrible for that to happen. Not that any tech platform would operate their business like that. I mean, come on. They would never do that. They would never abuse their dominant position for their own financial gains. first of all, what did you think, when you saw this? I know you, you had seen the reports about this.
Troy, I mean, Amazon is a, I would say it's like a beloved brand to some degree. We talked about it last week with the move against Amazon for its quote unquote dark patterns. But this is something else entirely, I'm not sure if the average person
[00:35:03] Troy: person, oh my god, they love it. And I think that, the check and balances of things like the FTC against corporate power are important. I think this will be a total fail. the issue, under investigation, it has to do with Amazon privileging marketplace sellers that use their fulfillment services.
And Amazon will make the argument that if you do that, they can put multiple products in a box and send it to you in Prime and get it to you in a couple of days so that the whole fulfillment infrastructure, solution becomes a real core part of the value proposition to the consumer. And that marketplace more broadly enables.
Lots and lots of small businesses to be successful. and they're, a very successful infrastructure provider to little companies. And I think that it will get packed up in court for a long, long time. And I think it'll all to be unsuccessful
[00:36:02] Brian: Hmm. So this is like Microsoft 2.0. When the FTC went after Microsoft, I know it was the DOJ that
[00:36:08] Troy: That was the d
[00:36:09] Alex: Well, Microsoft, it worked out though, because Microsoft had to unbundle the browser and
didn't, win the internet.
[00:36:16] Brian: they didn't do that, the market ended up solving for that before the government. It takes
[00:36:21] Troy: government. It
[00:36:21] Alex: I dunno, if the thing hadn't happened to Microsoft, I think,we might not see Google and Apple's dominance where they are. I think it's quite big. But, yeah, the Amazon thing, people really love Amazon. Even people who don't, like their practices on an ethical level for whatever reason, love the product.
And so much of that is the experience of the logistics of it, Like getting a product and then returning a product. And it's so much better than the alternative that I think most people wouldn't understand. How Amazon is harming them as a consumer. I think people, who dislike Amazon mostly like it, well, there's gotta be a cost to this, either environmentally or, because of the people's working conditions, but the service to the consumer is fucking fantastic,
[00:37:02] Brian: and so it's strange to me that Amazon's being attacked. it's not strange to me. I understand why Amazon's being attacked, when you compare it to companies that people use every day that, they actually dislike like Comcast or at and t or Verizon, which seem to be companies that have really terrible impacts on consumers, as a customer of these companies, I always feel. Robbed. You know, it's, it's hard to cancel. There's so many dark patterns in the way they do things. They overcharge all the time. So I think to most consumers, seeing them attack Amazon and not Verizon or Comcast is kind of baffling. Yeah, and I think that's the hard part is that the case is really, it's almost like a B2B not B2C case, and that the harm is downstream to consumers because the harm is to competition. And I think one of the hard parts with, if you wanna call it like modern antitrust, is that it's not the old antitrust, that's just looking where's the consumer harm, in that a lot of these digital markets operate differently and they become, not winner takes most, but they become about winner takes
all
[00:38:08] Alex: that their only lever though? it's funny the way you described it because if you ask folks, about what they feel Amazon is doing wrong, there's really two things that usually show up. One is like,worker experience. You know how the warehouse workers, what their experience is like.
But the other one is the fact that Amazon will launch their own Amazon branded, products based on the data that they see on their store. That's the big one that people would maybe rally behind. Like, Hey, this, mom and pop shop created this thing that you can stick to the back of an iPhone and it sticks up on your table and like six weeks later, Amazon had a copy and we're selling it and promoting it above them.
That feels like something, the fulfillment center prioritizing just feels like. Yeah, that sounds like a better way to do it, it's gonna be delivered faster and in the same box. Yeah. I, I dig that.
[00:38:55] Troy:
[00:38:55] Brian: Right, but I'm just saying, I'm just saying the harm that the FTC is going to be alleging is going to be to competition. So it's not like, oh, leave aside the prime stuff. This case is not going to be arguing that they're directly harming consumers, that they're indirectly harming consumers by squelching competition by the way that they've structured their business model.
Because they've made a business model that basically privileges one set of merchants over a different set of merchants. And the merchants, because Amazon is defacto e-commerce. Okay. Leave aside Shopify, they're gonna argue that this, market, it's like anyone who's accused of antitrust tries to say that the market is far larger, than it truly is.
we're a little mom and
[00:39:40] Troy: We're.
[00:39:40] Brian: here in Seattle.
[00:39:41] Alex: but isn't that what every, retailer like seems to do this. you want to be on the top shelf or you want to be here, you have to do that for us, like Walmart And
Costco
[00:39:50] Brian: sure.
[00:39:51] Alex: Joe's, and everybody still
loves
[00:39:52] Brian: right, the difference is when you have a shopping center, every, like few miles, it's annoying, but not a problem. When, when Amazon is the only shopping center, and we saw this with Walmart, with the, the controversies that Walmart went through at a different generation, where was the consumer harm there?
They were getting rollbacks, I agree with you, Troy, that I think it's really difficult to win in the court of public opinion because it's like really nerdy antitrust stuff and to a regular person, they're like, what? I can't believe I ordered something this morning and it showed up this afternoon.
It's great. Wish they used less packaging. I'm still gonna order 10 of 10.
[00:40:25] Alex: Yeah.
[00:40:26] Troy: Yeah.
[00:40:27] Brian: let's say, that they did successfully put pressure on them what would happen. So they would not privilege merchants that use their fulfillment services. Those merchants would do what? They would do it themselves or they would go to Walmart or they would. charge
[00:40:45] Troy: more or.
[00:40:46] Brian: it's a classic, bundling thing. I mean, they're, they're claiming that in order for us to be able to, privilege these people, they have to use our fulfillment thing and they'll just be under a consent decree and it's a normal, I don't know, are you guys still stuck in this thing?
That the market solves every problem? The market is
not some like magic box.
[00:41:07] Alex: into that. It just feels to me like Jesus, you come here, I was just in Europe, and you come to the US and most of this country doesn't have 4G or lt, let alone 5G coverage. It's impossible to get the internet know, every telecom provider?
[00:41:21] Brian: The internet
in France? The internet basically
doesn't
[00:41:23] Alex: No, hang on, hang on. Comcast is a terrible company. we can't have access to, like all of that stuff feels so anti-consumer,and you pay a hundred dollars a month for a line, you still get robocalls every five minutes. And this is where they go to protect consumers.
Consumers are getting absolutely screwed by just even connecting to the internet. And this is the one thing that they actually like and they're going against it. I'm not saying, I'm like, pro-am Amazon. There's a lot of things wrong with Amazon, trust me. but Jesus Christ. give people internet first before you, go after Amazon.
There's a lot of worse actors out there. I think
[00:41:57] Brian: Yeah, I think they can make a case though with, I mean, and I think with sympathetic characters of small businesses that have been screwed over by not paying off Amazon. I mean, I don't know. It's possible.
[00:42:07] Alex: it's just, even if they win,
[00:42:08] Brian: Look at the internet, like everyone, everyone who's successful runs a, a protection racket, like Amazon's running a protection racket.
The same as Google runs a protection racket. Facebook ran a protection racket.
[00:42:18] Alex: It just feels arbitrary
[00:42:20] Brian: Well,
[00:42:20] Alex: after these guys versus all the other
[00:42:22] Brian: it's hard to break up the mob. I don't know what to tell you.
[00:42:25] Alex: Yeah. I mean, you know,
[00:42:27] Brian: I gotta do some Ricoh.
All right, let's get into good product.
I have
one, but like,
[00:42:31] Troy: a, didn't you have a third topic
[00:42:33] Brian: there was three. first we talked about the open web, and then we also weaved in these crazy, like news bargaining code legislation stuff. And then,
[00:42:42] Troy: I thought you wanted to talk about tech Bros and their sort of
[00:42:45] Brian: Eh, I find that, okay, if you wanna
do
that. I'm not, I'm not into that.
[00:42:49] Alex: I, would like to tell everyone about my Ukraine expertise because, you
[00:42:53] Brian: All right, Troy, how do you think the counter offensive is going? I'm a little concerned, and I don't know why this guy Prigozhin is up in Belarus and oh, he just happens to be taking like 5,000 of these battle hardened dudes with him. I smell something suspicious. I was, up early getting coffee in Miami and like the other fellow middle-aged guys were like in the lobby while everyone else was sleeping, and this was a prime topic of conversation.
Middle-aged men love to talk about what Prego is doing. Like up in Belarus.
[00:43:26] Troy: It's just another plot by the military industrial complex to keep war funding at, levels up.
[00:43:33] Alex: well, isn't it, isn't it to keep the news cycle, in the mass media complex,from talking about Hunter Biden's laptop? Because I, thought that that was why
they orchestrated all that
stuff and.
[00:43:44] Brian: in the tank. They've been in the tank for a long time.
[00:43:47] Alex: Gee,
[00:43:47] Brian: Oh, they were in the tank. I'm reading a book about like the Iraq
War. I
love how everyone's like, sort of memory hold that
[00:43:52] Alex: we're obviously talking about the, all-in podcast amongst other things, but why makes all these people go, Ben stupid? why is it that becoming, I think wealthy is one thing, but then having a platform, quickly makes you turn more and more psychopathic?
[00:44:07] Brian: Paul, Krugman had a thing about this a little bit. Like he's hit and miss on a lot of stuff. But, he had something about, I mean, I think the obvious one is that, once you have success in one, in one realm, you end up like extrapolating it and
thinking that you're gonna be successful in all kinds of things.
but at one point that he made that, I would think like Elon Musk would have a foreign affairs person on his staff, I would
[00:44:31] Alex: and you know
[00:44:32] Brian: doesn't come up with this stuff on his own. He's
got like a
[00:44:34] Alex: know why I, I think a lot of these folks just have a hunch and surround themselves with people who, legitimize the hunch. think that, that some point you stop being surrounded by anybody who calls out what
you're saying.
[00:44:46] Troy: I think there's something to that. There's something else though that's bugging me right now, and it's got to do with this notion that you're no good on the internet. On Twitter, on your podcast, if you agree with everybody, if you agree with mass media, if you're part of the consensus, it's like way cooler to be conspiratorial or punk rock or outsidery or to see things that other people don't see.
your wealth gives you privilege to go down those rabbit holes and to question, the logic of mere mortals who don't see the world as clearly as you. So the incentive in all of that is to look for the conspiracy. And then to kind of milk currency out of your point of view, which is different and more informed or more sort of like sleuthy than anybody else's.
And so what you're getting, and I think that there's an, another thing that's a real casualty of everything we talked about in the long first segment we did, which is there was a tidiness to mass media that created stability, I mean, you could have the Fox point of view or the CBS point of view, or the New York Times point of view, but like they were all kind of in their lanes and we all were part of those cohorts.
And suddenly, like we have, what's this great term that is sort of, the RFK Junior thing? The conspire. Spirituality, conspirituality Do you know
this too? That's hard to say actually.
[00:46:11] Alex: Yeah.
[00:46:11] Troy: it's sort of like this weird, unholy blend of, ayahuasca, fake spirituality and conspiracy mindsets together, with a certain kind of political bent.
I think that massive fragmentation of modern media creates chaos
would be my, my
[00:46:29] Brian: Yeah, but I think that this is also the decline of institutions in some ways. and I don't know why, again, I'm not anti-tech, but it does seem to be like pulled in that area. It's not like bank CEOs are coming out with all these latching on to every,I won't say conspiracy theories, cuz now that too is a conspiracy theory.
all these like ure opinions, I mean, it used to just be like, you read the Wall Street Journal and the economists and you nodded your head But there seems to be something in the water, particularly out by you, Alex,
that.
[00:46:58] Alex: Yeah, no, I'm, and the funny thing is it's actually everything's coalesced. Like it seems that all these guys have a very similar outlook on the world and the conspiracies are being kind of really collected and connected to each other.
And it's funny how it starts with certain things and, it quickly goes into vaccine denial and it goes into climate change denial. And it, it becomes pro Putin for some reason, or at least not quite anti puttin. And like, all these are things where it feel like, They're more contrarian than anything else.
There's the mass media, which is like,this is what people broadly believe. And so we're going to go against that. That's number one. And the other thing is it's, it is upside down world. Like all of these guys are acting like victims. They're talking about the elite, Like literally people from their fucking yachts talking about how the
[00:47:44] Troy: Talking.
[00:47:44] Alex: coming after you.
And that shit is
crazy.
[00:47:48] Brian: is like Milan, castle Cha
Chama.
[00:47:50] Alex: is, yeah. It is insanity. I don't, I think there is a mind virus, and it's not the woke one. It's whatever fucking Elon Musk gave to everyone when they were sharing that joint, because they've all lost their fucking minds,
[00:48:04] Brian: But I will say this, like one of the pro, I was reading the economists this weekend, and it was like, oh, it was about Putin and the Wagner thing with Prigozhin. And I'm like, I know exactly what this is gonna say before I read it. Like I read enough of the Economist to know, I'm like, I know exactly what they're going to say.
And they said what they, I thought they were gonna say, maybe part of it is that
[00:48:25] Alex: wrong with
that.
[00:48:26] Brian: know like something's like, well,
[00:48:27] Troy: So,
[00:48:27] Alex: fine. That's how it's what it is. I think there's this really unhealthy feedback loop right now that's turning these, people who were lucky. You know, when you're very lucky in life sometimes I think you try to create a narrative for yourself that makes you feel better about the life you're living and the privilege you have.
And I think, if that's amplified too much, it can turn you into somebody who thinks you're an actual genius that knows everything. And then you've got David Sachs.
[00:48:53] Brian: Yeah, that's why the best place to
[00:48:55] Alex: Yeah.
[00:48:55] Brian: is Comfort Plus
[00:48:56] Alex: Although I will say, no.
[00:48:59] Brian: you're insulated from ever falling prey
to any of this
[00:49:02] Alex: I flew business class and for the first time in my life I was on the second floor of a 7 47. And there's something about being on the, on the second
floor of an airplane that just, trumps everything.
It's
fantastic.
[00:49:13] Brian: heights.
[00:49:14] Alex: a, nine feet make a huge difference.
[00:49:18] Troy: but it, it does make you feel back to this thing for a sec, we're starting to live in a kind of abstraction of reality where the narrative is more important than the truth. And so we, construct and find things that allow us To sort of have fun in this simulation or to be unique or to stand out or to kind of dunk on other people.
And it's worrisome to me actually because when it's connected to real world policies and bombs and shit, it's worrisome.
[00:49:46] Alex: Yeah. what I wonder is that if there's a half-life, and I also wonder people who, trade in those things and participate in them are just very loud. And I don't think there's as many of them as we think, I think they're just louder. because it becomes a gospel and it does become spirituality.
It's like,you meet a teenager who's just discovered atheism and you're like, shut the fuck up. I get it. Yeah. I say that having been that person,But I wonder if there's a half-life to this stuff and if people will just tire of it, because it is tiring. the All-In podcast, I never love the guys on it, but I used to find it entertaining and now I find it kind of exhausting and I've heard a lot of people say it.
[00:50:24] Brian: Well, everything exhausts. It's kind of like the woke anti woke stuff is, on the decline.
[00:50:28] Alex: yeah,
[00:50:29] Brian: everything I've seen that is on, on the decline and it didn't even last that long, so,
[00:50:33] Alex: No. I mean, it was kept alive by people who thought anti woke would put them in the president's seat, I, I don't know. I hope we're smarter than this. And this stuff just becomes nothing. And it turns out that. people like Elon are, not looking as, smart as they used to.
if you ask a lot of people who used to respect him, but it does, it has real world impact. especially when it comes around like vaccine climate change, denial, and yeah, fucking bombs.
[00:50:56] Brian: Yeah.Troy, are you going to endorse, Desis or the Bitcoin mayor?
[00:51:00] Troy: Do I have to choose?
[00:51:03] Alex: can,
[00:51:04] Brian: All right. We'll cover that
next Alright, we'll cover that.
product?
[00:51:06] Troy: Oh, you told me on the threads you had good product this week, so I left
it up to you.
okay. So Miami
if you do a nice setup and stuff and yeah. Make sure it's worth it
for
us.
[00:51:18] Brian: great.
[00:51:18] Alex:
[00:51:20] good product
[00:51:20] Brian: so it's like a million degrees down there. and at the place we were staying, they have a plunge pole. It supposedly goes down to 50 degrees, but I think by the afternoon, because the sun was so hot, it was like in the, like mid fifties by that point. But the plunge pole to me is the future with climate change.
I think the hot tub has seen its day, and that we are gonna, at some point in the next 20 years, there's gonna be more cold plunge going on than there are like hot tubs. And it's a refreshing product. you gotta dunk, you gotta go all the way under. the really hardcore people stay in 10, 15 minutes, you just go in for like a couple minutes, it's good.
Highly
recommend it.
[00:51:59] Alex: says, turned into the Hoberman podcast.
[00:52:01] Brian: Yeah. I've never listened to that guy say any good.
[00:52:04] Alex: he, he seems good. I mean, I, I can only listen them about health stuff for this long, but that's a good product. we were at a festival all weekend. It was like a hundred degrees and there was this,shower that was just connected straight to the river with that seemed to have had some sort of runoff from the glaciers or something.
And it was so cold and you would just, overheat and then drop yourself in there for 30 seconds and it would, it was a great experience. So yeah, the yay for cold plunges. But you know, the fact that we're bunch of dudes on podcasts pitching cold plunges is not going to surprise anyone. So like,
[00:52:36] Troy: Yeah. what, what festival were you, were you at?
[00:52:40] Alex: not gonna share it, but it's a small festival up in Yosemite.
[00:52:43] Brian: Are you not
gonna
[00:52:44] Troy: Hmm
[00:52:44] Brian: What is it
[00:52:45] Alex: like, I've got music. I don't want stalkers, I don't want media executives there
telling me how good advertising is. I don't want anybody like, rolling on Molly saying how much they love banner ads. know,
[00:52:58] Troy: do you have the last thing for you? Do you have any summer movie recommendations? Alex? Brian.
[00:53:04] Brian: No, I wanna see the Wes Anderson movie. That's about it. I, it's
[00:53:07] Alex: I gotta say, summer movie recommendations. excited for the new Mission Impossible movie. I. Because I really enjoy professionalism and things when people are really good at something, even if I don't love the movie, I think partially that's why I love Avatar too, so much.
There's just so much human creativity and ingenuity and everything is so well done. And I think that there's something about, Tom Cruise production where there was Top Gun Maverick or stuff like that. every part of this thing is going to be incredibly well done and, people are going to be at the top of their game.
And for me, watching those is nearly like when you watch a basketball game and everybody's top form. That's what it feels like. And that, dude is a fucking maniac.
and he knows how to make a spectacle
[00:53:48] Brian: I won't watch franchise movies. for ethical reasons. Like I think that the only way that Hollywood changes is if it gets a message and people start to boycott this approach. Cuz I understand the de-risking, I understand everyone wants to have a franchise, they can milk forever.
to my taste, I would rather have more like actual movies like we used to have instead of regurgitating the same freaking thing into I don't need to see another mission. I don't need no, no more mission about how
old
is the
guy? Is he gonna be like
75 doing this
[00:54:18] Alex: oh, he just, he just announced that he wants to do it until he is 80. If you can,
[00:54:22] Brian: No,
[00:54:22] Alex: I
not only will I
watch the New Impossible Movie,
[00:54:25] Brian: I don't wanna watch
[00:54:26] Alex: I will watch,
Every Mission Impossible movie from the first one before I watched, the New Mission Impossible. actually, I mean, you've got a point.
Disney's kind of in trouble. all their latest movies have been hits and there were a couple of originals in there. and also a couple of the Marvel movies.
But, you know,
[00:54:42] Troy: latest movies have been hits or
[00:54:44] Alex: I have been flops, sorry, sorry, flops. and right after the latest one, elemental didn't do well.
they announced that they were doing a new toy story, which, was one of those, series that should have and could have ended. And then it'll likely be good. But, yeah, I agree with you. I think,
[00:54:59] Brian: Harrison Ford is 80. He's 80 are why are
[00:55:03] Alex: but dude, like,
[00:55:04] Brian: this man to do this?
[00:55:06] Alex: he's not being forced. Man, if I was
[00:55:08] Brian: Yes, he is. He was being paid 25 million. That's forcing someone to do something.
[00:55:12] Alex: but he, he's not gonna be able to spend that money before, you know, like before it wraps it up. So
like it,
[00:55:19] Brian: years. I.
[00:55:20] Alex: people seem to forget that. Everybody always says money is what drives people. The fucking Rolling Stones don't go on tour for money. You two isn't like they like doing this. It's the only thing they know how to do. Harrison Ford likes acting in movies and being, Indiana
[00:55:36] Brian: I know, but it's, it's terrible for culture. it's one part of it. It's a very popular culture, but it's just, it's terrible to have this
[00:55:44] Troy: I actually think I, I gotta say you're wrong again. Sorry.
[00:55:48] Brian: Go
figure.
[00:55:49] Troy: listen, I think that there's a tremend Listen, two things Brian, I have for you. I think there's. Done well, there's a tremendous comfort in franchises, James Bond, mission Impossible. Raiders of the Lost Ark, star Wars. It connects generations. It gives you something to look forward to.
You invest in the characters. So I, I think if they're done thoughtfully, franchises can be wonderful things besides having obvious Business benefits. Now for you sitting in Comfort, plus I have a show recommendation
[00:56:19] Brian: Okay, good.
[00:56:20] Troy: It's,
[00:56:20] Brian: have, I don't think we have the screen, so.
[00:56:22] Troy: terrific. Well, you can watch it on your phone.
[00:56:25] Alex: it, Download it on your Amazon tablet.
[00:56:28] Brian: Okay.
[00:56:29] Troy: it's, it's, on Apple tv.
it's called Hijack with Idris Alba. It's shot in real time. It's, seven hours, and it all takes place on a seven hour flight.
[00:56:40] Alex: Oh,
[00:56:40] Troy: And the guys up in first class, Idris Albas, of course, in business last first class, and the, they're brainstorming how to stop the hijackers on the plane, and the people in the back are sitting uncomfortably.
not only are they uncomfortable, but they're subject to a hijacking
and they
[00:56:57] Brian: Yeah, but you know what? The people in first class are gonna need the people like in the back of the plane in order to save the day. they can't do it. they've lost their,
[00:57:05] Alex: Oh, yeah.
[00:57:05] Brian: long ago. They've been fat and happy.
[00:57:07] Alex: you're gonna need some, bullet shields. That's a,
[00:57:09] Brian: You're gonna need someone who's like, amped up and like 37, e in like a middle seat to come up there and like start to throw around fists.
[00:57:17] Alex: By the way, I recommend this show called, jury Duty, which is on free v Amazon's free TV thing. It's also available on Prime. it's a kind of a mock documentary that follows a jury duty and everyone. In the court, and the jury is an actor except one person who's a real person. And, the show is incredible and it goes places you wouldn't expect it.
it's surprisingly goodhearted, it's pretty great.
[00:57:43] outro
[00:57:44] Brian: Have you guys been on jury duty by any
chance?
[00:57:46] Alex: I'm not allowed, I'm not American.
[00:57:48] Brian: Troy.
[00:57:49] Troy: Never,
[00:57:49] Brian: Really? I've,
[00:57:51] Troy: so. I will.
[00:57:52] Alex: I'm surprised I've been called multiple times. I, and I get on them. oh, but do you tell them you're part of media,
[00:57:57] Brian: Well, that's why the defense chooses me, but the
[00:58:00] Alex: uh,
[00:58:00] Brian: chooses me cuz I'm like a middle aged guy.
[00:58:03] Alex: and then you say you're a podcaster
and, and they both,
[00:58:05] Brian: podcaster. You're excused.
[00:58:09] Alex: well,
[00:58:09] Brian: right, let's wrap it up.
[00:58:10] Alex: guess that's right. This was a long one. Okay. Good luck Vanya. 


Tab 26