PvA S4E169
===


[00:00:00] Open
---

​

[00:00:01] Troy: My house is under construction

[00:00:03] Brian: Is that your sauna?

[00:00:04] Troy: sauna and

[00:00:05] Brian: Oh, you're so cliche. Saunas are hot now. we go through extremes, like it was it was the ice plunge and now we're going to the complete opposite. 

[00:00:16] Alex: You got a new haircut

[00:00:17] Brian: I did. Yeah.

[00:00:18] Alex: looking sharp. this is why people that are just listening to this on audio are really

[00:00:23] Brian: you're missing out. You're missing out on my haircut. 

[00:00:26] Troy: really looking forward to watching you thread the needle this week. Brian.

[00:00:30] Brian: yeah. No pressure. No

[00:00:32] Alex: it's a big topic.

[00:00:33] Brian: It is. should we get started? 


[00:00:35] Welcome
---

​

[00:00:45] Brian: welcome to people versus algorithms. Show about detecting patterns, media culture, technology, um, mind control saunas. I'm Brian Marcy. I'm joined, by Troy Young. Troy welcome. 

[00:00:56] Troy: Thank you Brian. Nice to be here.

[00:00:58] Brian: And Alex Schleifer is with us. 

[00:01:00] Alex: Always a

[00:01:01] Brian: is healing.

He's, he's 

[00:01:02] Alex: Just healing 

a broken shoulder. 

[00:01:05] Brian: he has a broken, what is the recovery

time there? Four to four to 

six weeks.

[00:01:09] Alex: 46. Yeah. 

[00:01:10] Troy: you fall off that tower in Abu Dhabi when you were climbing it?

[00:01:15] Alex: Yeah, that's what happened. I was the fourth cameraman and I slipped.

[00:01:20] Brian: Yeah, that was a big, Netflix, spectacle. And we're gonna be talking about spectacles

[00:01:24] Troy: Where was that? What was the name of that tower? Do you remember?

[00:01:27] Brian: wasn't Abu Dhabi, but it

should have been. it was 

in Taiwan 

[00:01:30] Alex: Yeah, it was the 11th, tallest building. 

[00:01:32] Troy: Yeah. So we're gonna see a whole bunch of this, this reality programming until someone dies. And then we'll take a little break.

[00:01:40] Alex: Yeah. It feels, it feels a little bit like, it feels grim watching that I, I, I could, I, I haven't met someone who was excited to watch

[00:01:48] Brian: Grim. Why, Why, why, why, why, 

why, why? 

[00:01:50] Troy: Oh, it's

so grim. You know what was the grimness? Alex was when he was on like the 88th floor and there was a bunch of people in the observation room knocking on the window and waving at him as he was like being blown around by the, by the wind climbing a building without ropes. Like what's he gonna do?

Wave at you. Like

stop it. He's trying to concentrate.

[00:02:09] Alex: it.

[00:02:09] Brian: He waved to his wife. The thing is, he's a professional and from everything I've read, I don't know anything about it, but, from everything I've read, like it really wasn't that dangerous for someone of, of his, like what he did on that El Capitan or whatever. It was way more difficult than what he was doing there.

He's not even like a free climber of buildings. This is like an actual niche. He was just doing it, I think, for the money and for the thrills. so I love that love of the game. Physical bravery is something I wanna talk about. 'cause I think that's, 

I think that's 

[00:02:41] Troy: Tom Brady makes more, as a broadcaster on one quarter of football than he made climbing that building.

[00:02:49] Brian: He made $500,000,



[00:02:51] Alex: it's it's a little, I don't know. To me it's a little bit of a, short throw two hunger, not hunger games,you know, squid games from there. You know what I mean? 

[00:03:00] Brian: Maybe, maybe. But I mean, this is a professional and, and so I think it is a little bit different. I get if they were having like the general public, climb the building, I

might be 

[00:03:11] Alex: man. If, if they said like the first guy to reach the

top gets half a million dollars, but you all have to like never have done it before that I'd watch, honestly.

[00:03:20] Troy: Me?

[00:03:21] Brian: I I think the actual risk of him, of him plummeting to his hi, his death were really

[00:03:27] Alex: but it, that 

[00:03:28] Brian: low. 

[00:03:29] Alex: true, But it's it's, that's why you watch it though, which is an just like an odd feeling I find. 

[00:03:34] Brian: Fair enough. I have no segue to this, but AB is not there, is not here. he's working on a deal, I'm told. I have a feeling that AB is gonna be busy in the year to come. I think he should start a distress content practice. because there's a lot of properties that are for sale or will be for sale in the next year, that's just the reality of a compressing market. 

[00:03:57] Troy: He went through a bankruptcy cycle, so now he's a bankruptcy expert. 

[00:04:00] Brian: Yeah, sure. There's always ways. There's always ways. And I'm gonna get into to all of that. I've got some new reports from my capitalism book, but I wanna talk, 


[00:04:09] Mind Control
---

[00:04:16] Brian: I wanna start today by talking a little bit about mind control. And I was reminded of this recently because I saw that, Jennifer Addon, I'm late to this, she's dating her hypnotists.

The hypnotists have rebranded as hypno coaches, which is, interesting. And I feel like I grew up, as a child of the eighties at the tail end of a period in which hypnotist Hypnosis was, was very popular, but it was also very distrusted. And that's because mind control was a big thing. I feel like in the seventies and eighties.

some 

[00:04:44] Troy: was in the seventies, you know, you had just brought back in a really profound memory. So the largest,

[00:04:50] Brian: when you were in a cult in Canada. 

[00:04:52] Troy: So the largest gathering place in my town is called the Regina Center of the Arts. 

And it probably, it probably holds, I don't know, 4,000 people or something like that.

[00:05:02] Alex: 

[00:05:02] Brian: I had this whole spiel about, about cults. Go on.

[00:05:05] Troy: Okay, 

we'll let you go. But anyway,

[00:05:08] Alex: first person with a car? Yes.

[00:05:10] Troy: yeah. Okay.

[00:05:11] Brian: First person in Regina to

[00:05:13] Troy: Saskatchewan Center of the Arts advertisements on television for the man they call Ravine, the man they call Ravine.

And you would all go to the center of the arts and he would hypnotize the audience. And it was a huge thing. And to think of that, now it sounds ridiculous. I knew that people would gather in a small prairie town, well-meaning, you know, Eastern European immigrants, that that tilled the harsh soil and they would put 'em in a room and and collectively hypnotize them.

And this was spectacle in my town. 

[00:05:47] Brian: Yeah, well, I think we've long been obsessed with mind control and also I, because I think we're generally wary of it. And that's what I sort of took away from that era. And I think the modern, obvious version of mind control is algorithms and it's, it's now AI and, the distrust that has long existed with all institutions is absolutely coming for, the algorithms and for ai.

see this pretty much all over the place, I think. And, I think it's just natural that we, we distrust being controlled by others and I was reminded of that with, you know, I'm starting to see more distrust, of algorithms. TikTok this week was the subject of. Basically a lot. And, and the problem is they're by, by their nature algorithms.

And these systems are black boxes. And so people can ascribe all kinds of motives to them. And TikTok is now under new ownership. Larry Ellison is prominently involved. he obviously has, aligned himself with the Trump administration. So immediately there were accusations that TikTok was suppressing, more progressive speech,coverage of, of ICE in Minnesota, et cetera.

[00:07:02] Troy: Who would've thunk that Brian, that a guy that's 85, that looks 60, that owns a private island in Hawaii that you know, is kind of bizarre in his kind of character. And now he controls an algorithm that we would be like, Hey, wait a minute. What's going on here?

[00:07:21] Alex: Well, he bought it at a fair price though. He bought it at about a one time revenue, which is totally normal EV valuation for a tech company. Right.

[00:07:31] Brian: Okay, so we're just asking questions here now.

[00:07:33] Alex: No, we're just asking questions. That's totally normal. That's totally normal that somebody buys TikTok for a year's worth of revenue. That's that's how, that's how valuations work in the tech industry. And there was a bidding more as 

well. Right. Do we 

[00:07:47] Troy: Oh, you're being sorry. Yeah. Yeah.

[00:07:49] Brian: No, it was an insider deal. the Trump administration orchestrated it. And inevitably, I think as, particularly as technology companies become more entwined, with the government, or in this case, this administration, there's gonna be further distrust. This, the distrust that has been sowed a lot of times.

I, I might add from these technology leaders themselves in the, in the quote unquote institutional media. This is gonna come, like I always say, don't, don't bring the chimpanzee and put the, put the outfit on him. He's gonna rip your face off. And that's inevitably coming for, for technology. Now, look, tech companies have a lot of advantages.

You know, Google is really trusted by, it, it's, it's like the most trusted company by, by consumers in, in many surveys. So they, they do have a lot of room to run, right? But I think this backlash. Does say something about how algorithms and AI will inevitably be distrusted. It's just natural to me.

[00:08:47] Troy: Why do you think Google? Why do you think Google is so trusted? 

[00:08:51] Brian: I don't know. It's a good question. It 

[00:08:52] Troy: I think it's because it's a tool we use that gives us what we want. I think it doesn't feel like it's giving us things that we don't understand. It feels like it's doing, a service for us. And you know, I think that's true in Gmail. You know that that OG gmail move when they gave you all the storage for free, that was a great trust creator.

You know, the fact that that you use search it doesn't use you is a, is a trust creator. you know, I, through over time they've been the company that has given us, you know, wondrous technology in ways that made life better. And I think that creates trust.

[00:09:28] Brian: That's true, although they recently, they did this week pay us $68 million to settle a lawsuit that it recorded private conversations to use for ad targeting. So maybe these conspiracies are all true. They are listening to you for the, for the ads.

[00:09:43] Alex: Yeah, I mean, I don't, you know, I think Google has as many reason to be distrusted at anyone else, but they've done a really good job at, at just not, you know, putting anyone There's no person at the helm that seems to be making decisions. It seems to be kind of this big amorphous thing.

You used it every day for 20 years, you know, and I think people generally like see the results as, as trustworthy, which is great for them. I mean, same with YouTube. and meanwhile, you know, Facebook meta has had like plenty of distrust since 2016, I would say. Don't you think? I mean, I don't think the distrust thing is particularly new.

[00:10:16] Brian: No, not I, but I think it's, it's more broadly. I, I believe it's accelerated. but I could be wrong. I mean, Jack Dorsey, Jack Dorsey this week, who's an imperfect messenger. Let's be real. but he, he came out of his cabin, I'm sure it's a modernist cabin. It's probably amazing.

[00:10:32] Alex: I think he wakes up, like he wakes up every, every two and a half years feeling irrelevant and then tries to implant himself into the

[00:10:39] Brian: he is at least an interesting character, I feel like. But he, uh, you know, he, he was talking about, you know, bringing transparency to these, these algorithms and allowing people to have control of this. Because again, I think that comes down to the mind control is when you don't have control over. What kind of algorithm you're, you're is, is presenting information to you, you're literally giving control over to some other entity and, and those entities are architected, by humans.

And the idea that algorithms are unbiased and humans are biased, it has always been ludicrous. And something that you sell to low information

[00:11:21] Alex: absolutely

[00:11:22] Troy: No, we, we fled the gatekeepers, Brian. 'cause we didn't trust them. They were humans. We went to the algos.

Now we don't trust them. But you know what, I love what you said about Jack, you guys, because he is like the techno Ted Techno. Ted Kowski. 

Is that the right kaczinski? 

[00:11:38] Brian: Yeah. 

[00:11:39] Troy: he's got a message for you and you're not gonna like it.

[00:11:42] Alex: yeah, but I, but here's the thing, right? Like, I, since 2016 and a little bit earlier, we've been like this kind of mistrust of social media, specifically an algorithm has been, you know, in the public conversation. But I, I, I feel like we've tried all this. We've tried giving you more control and give me back the linear feed.

Turns out that people don't want 'em, and turns out that when you're fully algorithmic, you can make a bunch more money. So at this stage, what he's talking about is the healthy cigarettes. I wish we could just give kids healthy cigarettes. Finally. That's what he's saying. Maybe what's changing is that people notice that there are no healthy algorithms and that all our algorithms are like, have an opinion or editorial decisions and algorithms will also be skewed.

to, like Im improve the, the bottom line of these companies like,

[00:12:29] Troy: Hey, these are healthy cigarettes. Dumb, dumb.

[00:12:32] Alex: uh, zis. Yeah. He's holding up Zis by the way, which we we're still not getting paid for all that advertising. But when it comes to like, so, so open AI is facing that position of trust right now, right? They need to be trusted specifically as an AI agent and where people ask them about health and family and how they should deal with their, you know, friendship that's falling apart or whatever.

you know, they're putting advertising in there is like, the ads will never influence the results, right? But at some point somebody's going to figure out that like, Hey, you know what, like when somebody asks for this recipe, We have this big deal with Whole Foods and Whole Foods doesn't, you know, doesn't have, it doesn't have this type of cabbage, right?

So if we change the recipe, then we can advertise this type of like canned cabbage, and that's an extra $8 million. Like, all of these things are going to start, all algorithms are, are, are modifying themselves to improve revenue, to improve engagement, to do these things. And people maybe are just wisening up to the fact that, you know, they're never, they're, it's never good for them at the end user.


[00:13:35] Clawdbot/Moltbot
---

[00:13:35] Brian: Well, particularly when they start with ai, when, when AI starts to, you know, create its own itself. Like, you know, we're getting to that point and I think we're seeing e evidence that, that it is accelerating where, you know, AI is taking control of a lot of decisions. Like it's not literally a human who's making decisions.

and, you know, I don't, did you guys see the Claude Bot? you know, this is, an, an interesting, it was a cool like open source project, that was created that, a lot of the nerd set were, were getting Mac Minis in order to, to run. You can explain it better than 

[00:14:12] Alex: Uh,

yeah, at first, first the PSA, it is now called it, it, it is now called the Malt Bot because, uh, c Claude wi written like a lobster claw. of course, anthropic, you know, sent them a

[00:14:24] Brian: which by the way is fair. It's fair

[00:14:26] Alex: Uh, it's absolutely fair. He, here's the issue.

[00:14:28] Troy: did you install it, Alex? 

[00:14:29] Alex: l lots of lots, lots of Crip. Well, this is my PSA, right?

First of all. Cryptog, grifter got on, like capturing all the names that mentioned Cloud Bot and, and trying to launch coins and things like that. So be careful out there. Number two, this is not, this is for, if you need to be technically proficient with that, you can open up a massive, massive security hole to your entire life by doing stuff like that. 

[00:14:54] Brian: basically it is, it is trusting, it is giving over control o of your, computer,

basically to 

[00:15:01] Alex: I mean, you, you should install it on a separate instance and you shouldn't give it any of your accounts. But even there, you know, you're giving a machine control to make decisions based on like, you know, prompts that you make it, but I, you know, it could go haywire. More likely some bad actor could come in and hijack it, like we're, we're, you know, We're living in a world now where a lot of this stuff is gonna start happening, so the agents are coming and it's going to be a bit of a mess. I think so.

Be 

[00:15:30] Troy: I think that Claude Butt is actually, yeah, I did it. Alex

and I, got my, I got, I, it didn't go well.

[00:15:36] Alex: Okay.

[00:15:37] Troy: So, so what, what what I was doing is I was being coached in real time by Claude to do terminal access to my computer and try to type in a bunch of commands that I didn't understand, and then what would follow would be a long list of AC activity at the core level of my machine.

I felt vulnerable for sure, and then 

[00:15:56] Alex: yeah, you, you might still be, I don't know. You know, you were kind of raw dog, the internet,

[00:16:00] Troy: yes. You know, the, the 

[00:16:02] Brian: You felt like they get like that feeling right after they give you the hospital

[00:16:05] Troy: I was like, wait, I'm. 

[00:16:06] Brian: feeling.

[00:16:07] Troy: I wanna be a lifelong learner, et cetera, but like, I'm gonna waste, you know, a week of my time to try to get it to like, automate an email, send or book a meeting. Like I can already do that on my phone. So, but, you know, I think that cloud bot is really about agency in some ways because it's, it's, it's builds trust through use and seeing that you're controlling the agent on your computer, right?

I think that there's a kind of hands-on ai, notion around cloud bot that says you're not, you know, it's not running on someone else's server. It's running on your server and you've authorized it to connect to your

[00:16:41] Alex: That's a big pitch that that's a

big 

[00:16:44] Brian: that necessary? I mean, that's like, that's like FSD, right? Like, I mean, you have to, you have to get, you have to get to this point where you trust giving over control to the bot. Like, and that's why they, they have a driver who was sitting in, in Waymo initially just like sitting there. and then all of a sudden, like people are clamoring to get in Waymo's, that trust has gone, they completely in the opposite direction.

In fact, people will even pay more to have Waymo's. Then they will to have like a human driving them.

[00:17:15] Alex: Yeah, I think uh, I,

[00:17:17] Brian: point. I, I wonder 

[00:17:18] Alex: three rides. It you three rides to get there. I think the first ride, you feel like you're in a Jetsons movie. The second ride, you're trying to look at all the detail. The third ride, you're just checking your phone and this is totally normal.

And

[00:17:29] Troy: sex,

[00:17:30] Alex: well, they'll stop you from doing that.

but

[00:17:33] Troy: how do they know Al, how do they 

[00:17:35] Alex: they have cameras, everywhere's got cameras. Everybody's watching everyone. It sucks, man. 

[00:17:40] Troy: I guess you and I won't be taken way more soon.

[00:17:44] Brian: Yeah.

Well they already developed that technology with YouTube and that's how it became a mass in ad business. It can find a nipple anywhere.


[00:17:50] Elon Reframing Tesla
---

[00:17:50] Troy: Well, guys, it it, anyway, the, it's, it's interesting. I think the cloud bot observation for me was we are about to see a lot of wild things with tech as the capability of AI kind of percolates through, you know, humanity. And so, you know, a guy built something kind of incredible. It is a really cool application of the technology and he did it in a few weeks.

And you're gonna see tons of that this year. You're gonna see a ton of dispersed innovation. And, and I think that the difference between like Claude Bott is like the ham radio of ai, right. Versus what I thought was interesting yesterday was Elon reframing Tesla in the quarterly call by saying that the new, You know, mission of the company is sustainable abundance in which you are placing your trust in a weird guy who's going to like, give you a robot that can learn instantly and, and, and transform, you know, the production lines of Tesla into a robot factory. And, you know, so much so that he claimed that it would shift American GDP.

So, it's like, wait, we're gonna get robots in our house that we truly don't understand that are gonna do all, what are they gonna do? Do they have cameras? Are they watching me? What are, like, we're, we're on the precipice of something, mind bending, we're all going what? Like we're, we're.

So it's so, embedded now and then it becomes a manifest in a robot in your house that's gonna make you not want 

[00:19:23] Brian: brakes. Let's pump the brakes. I see these robots in action in Miami Beach, and trust me, they're not taking 

control anytime soon. They cannot control delivering a burrito.

[00:19:32] Alex: right? I cannot believe like that. I'm gonna be that guy. But like, if you watch C yesterday, everybody had a fucking robot. and all those robots were ridiculous and couldn't fold a napkin.

And the, the gap between there and having a robot walking around and, you know, making us breakfast is pretty wide. Now will it happen? Maybe, but society will be very different in 10, 20, 15 years when it happens, right? This is like that last mile that takes you, that takes you two decades. And, as it happens, we're gonna start freaking out about things that, you know, you know, that are, are, are not particularly important to us today.

And the, the problem is right now is that we have machines that can do really incredible things. I think CLO Bot is an example of how even without the LLM models reaching a GI, if you're quite smart about it, you could build, build a little agent that runs on the computer and acts as you know, as an, as an executive assistant.

pretty well, What CS showed us as well is that like China's manufacturing capabilities are amazing. We can build all this shit, we can build drones and robots and stuff, but the software is not even there. The amount of things that just ran into walls and, and did all this stuff, navigating a home is like, you know, way more complicated than a way more driving around, San Francisco.

And so, I don't, I, it's gonna be different, but I think that the, the big difference is going to be like in the software that we use and how like we start using ag, ag agentic systems and the amount of things that we're gonna start seeing break because like. Being able to have agents to like check your email is great, but being able to have agents that like know every single exploit in the world and try to hack every single computer 24 7 for you to see if they can find your credit card number, the amount of emails that I'm getting already today that I AI generated, all of that stuff, that's going to be some of the of the negative stuff we're gonna see and that's going to really start building mistrust with, with computers in general, with, with technology in general.

[00:21:30] Troy: I think just to echo what Troy said earlier, I think. I don't say this with any great, thrill, but think Ted Kaczynski's, beliefs might get like revisited, not his techniques. but, I think, I think Uncle Ted, there's a reason like they didn't want to publish his manifesto. Yeah. It's just that, but this, this trust 

[00:21:47] Alex: We're pro Unibomber on this podcast.

[00:21:50] Brian: not pro Uni bomber. I'm just

saying like 

[00:21:52] Troy: minute guys. This trust vacuum that you're articulating is really fascinating because we're living. in a time of deep confusion and, and we're looking for signals and, and the algorithm is opaque and it's comfortable, but we don't really know how it's changing our brains.

And then, you know, amidst all of this, you have an ultimate symbol of low trust, which is a masked person. Masking is about no trust. You, you don't trust people that wear masks 'cause they're hiding something. And you have, you know, this, these, these violent juxtapositions in society of like masked ice guy versus, you know, starved toed, you know, hap hapless,Minnesotan, right?

And we try and we're, and, and, and we're like, that's right. This is wrong. And so, and those juxtapositions are changing the way we feel about things really, really. quickly. And I think that's what's so interesting. Do we, like, do we trust Elon when he says his robots are gonna, you know, create sustainable abundance?

You know, what, what is it that we tr we're looking to our leaders for this, right? And so we're like, where the fuck were you, Tim Cook when all this shit went down? You were ha you were at the screening of Melania in the White House. That's not a high trust signal. Which then forces him to kind of go back to the, to, to, to the Infinity Loop and tell people, you know, that, that he had a nice conversation with Trump and told him not to be an asshole.

And, and you, you have the same thing with, with, with, you know, the, the hedging is amazing. Sam Altman saying, you know, Trump is a great leader, but you know, he, he's gone off the rails a little bit. You know, like, I'm on your side people. And so we have these people that have enormous amounts of power and we don't know if we should trust them.

[00:23:41] Brian: Yeah. 


[00:23:42] Minnesota Obscenity
---

[00:23:42] Brian: And I think that's 

a great point and a great segue. Troy, great segue, put kudos to you. because what is going on right now in Minnesota is obviously an obscenity. at least to me it is. and I do think the narrative has turned this week and, and a lot of the, I think the, the fundamental.

There's been many mistakes, but I think in losing control of the narrative, that masking will come, will, will come back to haunt,the Trump administration. because just like you said, people don't trust mask, and there's the, there is that juxtaposition. Juxtaposition that anyone can, can understand immediately of seeing someone who is standing up to mass power.

It's, it's crazy. And so that's why Trump's Trump's approval ratings have, have reversed in all demographics. and I think it comes down to how this has been implemented. I know I've gotten notes about it, about like, you know, people saying, I, I got someone who sent me a note saying that, like one that I've been sucking up to ad tech forever.

And I was like, I don't 

think so. But uh,

[00:24:45] Troy: Good point.

[00:24:47] Brian: only only when it is part of a, a deliverable, but like that, but also that like, you've not been like speaking out about like ice. And this is a problem for not just for, for minor podcasters, but particularly for the leaders in these organizations who have been trying to be very acrobatic with how they're responding to, to this environment.

And, you know, ultimately. They're gonna have to pick a lane and they're gonna have to figure out how much they're gonna go along with. I think Dario Omada has like emerged as a really interesting figure in Silicon Valley because the narrative around AI has really moved in the di direction of Anthropic.

And, you know, he dropped another one of his, his 20,000 word treatises. this week. anthropic has a constitution, by the way, which is fairly interesting. And of course it was partially written by, by ai. Um, 

and it will come down to trust. 

[00:25:44] Alex: I mean, I think they've, they, they, they, philanthropic Hass been doing a great job actually since the beginning of, of, of baking that into all of the narrative. but yeah, the, the, the idea that like, we are meant to trust these algorithms, but I run by these people who are either outward untrustworthy.

I don't know if you've guys ever had the pleasure of listening to Alex Karp, CEO of Palantir, but that just scare the shit out of you. and now, you know, we're seeing just, you know, massed people with guns in the streets, pulling people out of schools. and here's the thing that kind of like the Tim Cook stuff, I think there's no such thing as Fuck you money.

Huh? All of these people have fuck you money. But I'm totally unable to say, fuck you. Like, it's so, it's so odd to watch all these people squirm and participate and give little trophies. 

[00:26:31] Troy: I think you're better off doing fuck you when you live in a cabin.

[00:26:34] Brian: Well, yeah. So you

have to be po you have to be post No, you have to Yes. 'cause Ted. Okay. you, you have to be, like I've already realized. 

I interviewed, I actually 

[00:26:45] Alex: uh, Brian just showed us a tattoo of, of

Ted k 

[00:26:48] Brian: no, I, I interviewed actually one of his, his victims. One time a math, a computer scientist, David Lerer.

And, you know, he was maimed by, 

[00:26:55] Alex: yeah. No, we all agree that it is. He was not 

[00:26:57] Brian: He very, very bad guy. I mean, and honestly he just needed a substack to get his, his, his, his 

[00:27:03] Troy: Ted did, Ted should have had a sub

for 

sure. The, 

[00:27:06] Alex: sure, 

[00:27:06] Troy: know what al the, the 

[00:27:08] Alex: probably a beehive, though. Probably a beehive 

because 

[00:27:10] Brian: beehive would've, would've done the

trick. 

[00:27:12] Alex: better. He wanted to

more control over the design.

[00:27:15] Troy: Yeah, I mean, listen, Vietnam took years to turn. These ones are, you know, because everybody creates content and, you know, everybody's broadcasting, a grad student being detained or a five-year-old being thrown in the back of a van. The narrative shifts fast and you got mass people,you know, as the new enemy.

And suddenly we realize that Trump has failed in creating an external enemy that we can rally against. The enemy is us, and that's the narrative shift. We feel like the enemy is us. and, and, and in that context, you know, there's going to be mass resistance. 

[00:27:53] Alex: Yeah. cause people don't feel good. There's that, that's that meme. The, are we the bad Klaus? Are we the baddies meme? You know? but I don't, I don't, and I don't think that a lot of the loudest voices, Are helping, like, I don't think like Elon Teal, Karp, Zuckerberg, Bezos, Altman, I don't think pe they, they have high trust value with people.

Do they like, like the, the, the Melania documentary was funded by Amazon. they spent $40 million on it. Tim Cook said the thing like, then, you know, they give TikTok to their friends. Like, it, it's all, I mean, I think it's, it's cumulative on top of that, right? I think the foundation is rife for, like, people say, we don't trust these people,

[00:28:38] Brian: Well, I think, you know, part of it is, you know, there's always like a hangover, right? And, and tech is one of the most powerful institutions and it is an institution. Big technology is a power center. When we say institutions, that's in, in, in, in America. That's just a nice way of saying power centers. Like, you know, 'cause we

we're immature. Yeah. And, and so if we have distrust in all power centers, 'cause that's what it really is. Why in the world would we not have distrust of this power center, which is the biggest power center arguably right now? it, you know, Hey, you're gonna

[00:29:16] Troy: I mean, Brian, it, it, it would, I hate to, to steal the, you know, moderation here for a second, but I would lead you to the point that you made, because you're reading that big fat capitalism book, of modern analogies to the Potosi mine. 

[00:29:30] Brian: Oh yeah, 

[00:29:31] Troy: and I'm, it may be an imperfect AI versus, you know, strip mining human intelligence versus, you know, kind of, genocide.

but, but, know, perpetrated by the Spanish and the church total impunity, by

[00:29:46] Brian: This is the 16th century. This was ail. This was a massive silver mine that sprung up, in what's now Bolivia. it was one of the biggest cities in America. It had a population bigger than London at the time, which is

amazing. just just sprang up out of nowhere.

Silver enabled capitalism that happened. 'cause it was, it was required to be able to, financialize the system. there was, there wa there were a few wrinkles. it was dependent on, on forced labor, by indigenous populations. they would send people by forced down into the mines to, to haul back up over a hundred pounds, of silver on their backs 

[00:30:25] Troy: I 

[00:30:25] Brian: not sure they provided

masks No, there was no masking. And it turns out there was a lot of carcinogen down there, about a 50% mortality rate for these coerced workers. and possibly I, I think when I was reading it, I was like, Hmm, you know, that was a sign of things to come. because I always say it's, it's not called ca uh, worker and for a reason.

And I think now the, the, the, you know, to me the analogy just like you said, was that, you know, algorithms plus AI are the ultimate, extractive. Technology, and I don't think the people that operated the Potosi mine back then were necessarily, quote unquote evil. I think that's a really immature way of like seeing things also very American.

in fact, they were just responding to the incentives of the system and the incentives that are being lined up right now, particularly when you don't need labor to produce economic productivity are to get rid of labor. I, I was struck. I I saw one of these, I I'm still trying to, to quit X, but I saw

[00:31:25] Troy: What was the competing power structure against the evil Spanish? you know, mine owners, 

[00:31:31] Brian: Well, there 

[00:31:32] Troy: there, there wasn't. 

There weren't any.

[00:31:35] Brian: there is like Silicon Valley. It was great monopoly. you know, I saw this, this clip of one of these fast talking AI guys, they're like on 2.5 speed, I find. and he, he was talking about. You know, basically around how AI is going to, to mean that governments and power centers do not actually need people that like, really in modern times, you know, regular people have been treated quite nicely because they've been needed.

They've, they've been needed to go into the minds to extract things. but once they're not needed, then the game is gonna become how do they, you know, how do they organize into interest groups in order to petition to get like handouts and whatnot? And he started, what was really bracing was when he started referring to legacy humans as opposed to synthetic humans.

[00:32:25] Troy: Yeah. Yeah.

[00:32:27] Brian: So 

we are all legacy humans. 

[00:32:29] Troy: it's just first principles thinking Brian.

[00:32:31] Brian: Yeah. These guys that you could use the terms like legacy humans, like seriously, without acknowledging how ridiculous it is really do scare me. 

Do you know them, Alex? You have dinner with them, don't

[00:32:42] Alex: I try to avoid dinner with them, but you, you kind of, you overhear them once in a while, you know, you're having brunch and these 2 26 year olds are talking how they would solve the economical issues in Myanmar because they know, I feel like incentives is the things that we should always go back to.

And, and when you were talking about algorithms, all of these things run in incentives. And having seen behind the curtains, like the incentives can always lead to. You know, downstream effects that, you know, aren't great for people. Like, it's, that's, that's the, that's the thing that happens. 

[00:33:14] Brian: yeah, it is all incentives 

and 

[00:33:17] Troy: I just want to echo one, a point that was made, that I made earlier actually, that this, this time of great confusion and I felt confused this week by listening to, the analyst, Silicon Valley analyst and man who's made a kind of brand of himself for being the. The kind of, you know, reasonable voice on, on, on ai. Paul Kros Kovski are you 

[00:33:44] Brian: I know, I know him. The economist.

[00:33:46] Troy: Y? Yeah. He is an analyst and he, you know, advises hedge funds and stuff and he is smart, but you know, like many of us, or many people get trapped in what their brand of punditry is.

So his particular brand right now is to say that this is a massive bubble. And so all things must, you know, support that, that argument. And he was on Henry Blots podcast this week talking about why the economics of, you know, AI and data centers are inevitably bad and how it will. it must lead to a crash.

And then you contrast that with the kind of flooding the zone that say a 16 does, and the archetypical kind of first principle thinker that is an A 16 partner, talking about why this is, you know, the beginning of an economic miracle and how, you know, if anything, AI is under hyped.

And so I, I think that, you know, as sort of civilians in the middle of this, we're really confused. Like, what, what it, what, what should I be doing? And I feel this confusion personally because I don't know what to tell my kids other than the, like, basic shit. Like, you guys better get good at using AI and figure out how to become empowered by this technology.

It's inevitable. And if you don't, you know, you're, you're gonna be 

[00:35:11] Brian: yeah. Everything falls into cliche. Be adaptable, be high agency. 

[00:35:16] Troy: and so, and they're going, and my kids, 'cause they're, you know, mid to late 22 of them and one of them kind of just getting into the workforce are really, really baffled right now about where the, a lot of the paths that were there for us, whether you were sort of, you know, right brain, left brain, and therefore, you know, you were tailor made for a future in the marketing creative advertising media world.

Or you, you know, you were, you know, naturally, I don't know, absorbed by a system in all kinds of ways, whether you were, you know, great at math or great at writing. 

And right now I just don't know where people go. It's, it's really troubling. I don't know what advice to give them.


[00:36:00] Algorithms and Social Media
---



[00:36:00] Alex: I mean, I think that the messaging itself, you know what, what, what you end up reading, reading what your kids end up read, reading, you know, because it's filtered through algorithms ends up in, in extremes, right? So it's very hard to find a path, which is usually kind of somewhere in the middle. And you know, you talk to tech people here and they say, well, you know, what I'm building into my kids is resiliency and, you know, like curiosity and, knowing that they also have a trust fund.

but one thing's for sure is like, you know. They don't expose their kids to a bunch of technology, they don't expose their kids to all that anxiety that's being fed to you. Yeah. My, my YouTube stream is either people saying, if you're not gaining 24 hours a day of productivity using cloud bot, you're fucking 

a loser.

You know? And, and the other side 

[00:36:48] Brian: a meme that. There's a meme that. you have like six months to three years to acquire to, to amass and accumulate as much capital as you can, because that's the only thing that matters. And like you've got, like, you're, you've, you're on the clock.

[00:37:04] Alex: I mean, it's a double. We, we, it is a double tap of like COVID and then the algorithms has made, has made us all crazy. And so the main thing is like if you go around the world and you walk around the world and you talk to people and you get your head out. Twitter, like there are jobs out there, there are things people do, you know, they transact, they lived everyday life.

They don't let this stuff get to them that much, which is to me like comforting at the very least. Right. I don't, I don't know how, how, how crazy the world is actually compared to how it's represented through us. Through like

[00:37:37] Brian: Wait, you were the guy who was telling us like two years ago that the spaceship was over the White House and now you're telling us to go live like a agrarian life in Europe.

[00:37:47] Alex: Oh it is. I mean, and for media, what hasn't it turned true for media and for these tech companies becoming more powerful and the rich becoming richer and a total like reconfiguration of what truth is or how we look at computing or like Yeah, sure. But like there is a world outside of that, you know what I mean?

And it's way healthier, you know, 

like 

[00:38:13] Brian: yeah, I mean, I, my, my view is colored by, I think you're taking a shot at me for spending too much time on X. It's

X now, 

[00:38:19] Alex: not taking a shot. I care. And I don't know when you're gonna hit your bottom, but, we'll, Troy and I will be there.

[00:38:24] Troy: No, I'll be 

[00:38:25] Brian: I can look, I can quit anytime I want. I can quit 

[00:38:29] Troy: a, a deep ex addiction right now.

[00:38:32] Alex: I've, I've 

noticed the, the WhatsApp 

[00:38:34] Troy: it from the

filled 

[00:38:36] Alex: It is fucking, it's just like, who fucking, there's just too much stuff that doesn't really matter. Like, I feel like I, I quit, I quit social media, you know, on and off, and I still do it for work. But, I find out about stuff that, that happened two or three weeks ago that I would like usually kind of jump on it.

It doesn't fucking

[00:38:54] Brian: Do you know what I fell for this week? I shared, I shared like an AI meme. 

[00:38:58] Alex: Oh 

[00:38:59] Brian: fart, about fart, maxing. It was about a guy who, who ate tofu and and beans for lunch to such a degree, that he was trying to fart Max in the office and he got fired for it. And then of course, like I, I informed my wife who has a PhD of this development and she was

like, 

that's ai.

And I felt, and it, it reminded me 'cause it was the first time I've, I've fallen for that. I think, uh, knowingly and it was a really bad feeling and I, I, it felt like there was a, I mean, it was my wife, so I don't think, but there was like a social cost that, and I think there's still weirdly a social cost one of like falling for this stuff.

So everyone has to be hypervigilant and I think that really is taxing mentally. And then also there's still an incredible social cost at using AI for creative work. I, I'm still struck by the fact that. In coding, you have people like Andre Carpathy who are saying, now I'm just orchestrating, I'm not even using the auto complete of coding.

Coding is, is, is over. You just have to, I'm just using English. That's my coding language. Whereas you would never, you would never hear a, a writer or I think, and tell me if I'm wrong, like a designer who is like, oh yeah, yeah, I don't like, I just like, you know, I just write into Figma like what to do. 

[00:40:18] Alex: There, there are, well, there, there are some engineers who feel a little bit more attached to the craft, right? In quotes. however, if what I, however, I think like, you know, look, coding has been. Created on layers of abstraction since the beginning, right? The first one used to weld your own chips, then they gave you cards, then somebody, you know, let you program something.

All of these things are cheats, right? If you were like a hardcore coder, why don't you like, you know, forging your own metal. and even when you look at modern languages like, you know, like Python and stuff like that, they abstract a lot of the computer machine language that happens in the background.

So there's like a more natural path between that and saying, well, you know, it should all turn into English because we're trying to make these languages easier and easier. At some point, these languages will become English, right? So there's a little bit of a natural thing there when it comes to art. and, and writing and human expression, right?

Which I think, I don't know, you could say that coding is human expression. I think it makes us feel icky, I think. I think that type of stuff, like of machine replacing. The thing that, that we create through art. Like, even, even there like layers of extraction are, less accepted, right? Like, so computer synthesizer music is a thing, but people still appreciate people playing live, people turning knobs.

I mean, even DJs, right? Who don't do that much, right? Kind of like performatively, like,

[00:41:45] Brian: I like it. They're dancing around and dancing on top

of it And it's 

like, well, 

[00:41:48] Alex: DJ and I like, I like doing it, but like part of it, you're like being partially a hype man for, for the music. And that's fine because people want that connection to the human expression, the ability to make mistakes and stuff like that.

And I think these are two different paths. Are there engineers that think like coding belongs in art bucket? Sure. and they can still do that. but that's why I think there's a difference there. And I think it's correct. 


[00:42:11] Hardcore Media Topics
---

[00:42:11] Troy: Brian, I wanted to bring it back to some hardcore media topics. I mean, I have at the end, under good product, we can hit the fart videos. 'cause I, I, I

[00:42:20] Brian: Oh, have 

you also been 

[00:42:21] Alex: is, that DAI fart

videos? 

[00:42:23] Troy: like, I like 

[00:42:24] Alex: I'm, I'm, not on 

your 

[00:42:25] Troy: like a good, I like a good fart. Video one, the one I saw this week that made me laugh was. It was a fart.

That was the first two notes of Chris Isaac's Wicked Game. And it was like, no,

[00:42:37] Brian: yeah.

[00:42:38] Troy: no, no, no. Anyway, it went from those two notes and then the music came on and that, that I thought was

[00:42:44] Brian: Curing cancer. Still to come.

[00:42:45] Troy: we'll get back to that at the, the, in the good product segment. But Brian, every leader that goes into a media company, and Brian, you and I were introduced to this idea this week collectively in, in what might become, you know, maybe a little side project for us, but the, the idea that, you know, someone new has to come into a company and explain that, you know what they're making isn't, isn't purpose built for the way people are consuming now, and that as a result, everything has to change and many people have to go away.

And they have to completely re rethink the mechanics of their media operation is very interesting. And I, you know, I say this as someone who, who had to kind of participate in, in being that kind of evangelism and change maker and disruptor in a, in organizations that don't wanna change, for lots of reasons anyway, to watch, Barry Wise try to explain to CBS, the people at CBS, why what they're doing won't work or will lead to a relevance I thought was really fascinating this week.

in my mind it was explaining the, the fundamental difference between the kind of podcasting mind and the network mind and, and that we are. There, there's this sort of almost, I don't know, maybe imperfect term, but the ification of network television is such a profound change. And I thought, and I'll take the other side here.

I thought she did a really good job. Something that I had never seen done by, an executive in. Network television to explain why they're quickly heading to irrelevance. Maybe that's the obvious and what they have to do as a result in terms of the kinds of stories they chase and how they render those stories.

Right. And so the differences to me have just always been so fundamental, right? Podcasts are, are an on demand media format. You know, getting on the air isn't the win. Getting attention is the win, right? Where, where podcasting is this sort of unfiltered mind versus scripts and lighting and makeup and teleprompters and you know, that, that credibility I is about your audience relationship, not the position you're in.

When, when you become a, you know, CBS news anchor and, and they're not these kind of one way that relationships, they're, I don't know. Parasocial relationships where you feel like you, you, you know us. and so the, this, the, you know, how like fast and flawed versus slow and fake what Alex refers to as baby news, like it, they just don't mix very easily.

And so to watch kind of Barry lay that out and say, basically we need to turn CBS news into the podcasting network and bring on all kinds of talent and all this stuff, I think is really interesting. It'll be, it, it, you know, I, I'm sure she'll make progress whether or not she survives it is TBD, but I thought it was really interesting

[00:45:52] Brian: Yeah. I mean, she did say, you know, I mean I, there's this sort of unvarnished truth, you know, and Will Lewis tried this? Didn't go well for him. He tried the, nobody is reading your stuff. Barry's, variation of that was we're not producing stuff that people want. and this is, you know, a lot of these things with media I'm always struck with is they sound very simple and they're, and they're, and they're common sense because this isn't an execution business.

And you know that it's like, who's gonna object to, it's like, oh, you gotta make stuff that people want. Oh, you know, people have to have loyalty to you. And I find this all the time when I'm like writing about it because I'm like, this is like pretty, pretty basic stuff. 

[00:46:28] Alex: But my, my question is like, what's next? The reason podcasts work is because the economics of shooting a podcast are really low. And so Yeah, man, like, you know, you can get an ag one, advertising deal and make a bunch of money, but you don't have a network TV to sustain, like Sure.

Like be So what are you saying? Like, we should shut this down and all individually go into our bedrooms and start recording podcasts. Yeah, that would work. 

[00:46:56] Brian: Yeah, I 

think I 

I, think 

[00:46:57] Troy: Well, the question, Alex, is how difficult are the trade-offs? And if you did execute the plan that I sort of roughly described, would you end up just being, you know, economic flawsome on, on YouTube? You know what I mean? Like you, you risk giving away all your value to the network layer. 

[00:47:18] Alex: Sure. Yeah. But I mean, that's where everything is going, right? Like the pressures are coming down to creating more and more content, more cheaply because you need to get more views to generate less money. and so like. I mean, I, I, I, I feel like people are looking at podcasts now and they're looking at YouTube like, like, you know, that's kind of, that's the, the promised land.

But, you know, there's a reckoning coming there too, right? as you know, more AI tools, et cetera, kind of force more content down the path and, individual creators get less and less views and get less and less kind of power to bargain on advertising or even create, like, like all of that stuff is, you know, the end game here that all of these platforms want is like everybody to get their 15 minutes of fame and nobody to make a fucking set.

Because I think because anybody gets established, you know, you kind of make less revenue on it. And, and, and DRI is worse. So I don't know what it, I, I'm not saying she's wrong, that nobody listens to this shit, but like, and what, like, what are you gonna do? Like, what's the plan? 

[00:48:19] Troy: Well, that's what she articulated. If you had read what I sent around on WhatsApp,

[00:48:23] Alex: Yeah, I did read it. I mean, I mean, like. 

[00:48:25] Troy: you summarized it.

[00:48:27] Alex: Here's the problem, right? Like, I, I, my data might be wrong, but like, good Morning America. Robin Roberts, is that a person?

[00:48:34] Troy: It's Gale King on on the

CVS. 

[00:48:37] Alex: Okay. 

[00:48:38] Brian: America's A, B, C.

[00:48:40] Alex: oh, good morning, Amer. Uh, good morning. 

Yeah,

but that was 

Gale King. Yeah. I get Is is it the same? It's, it's not the same show.

What is it? The other one is Good morning. I don't even fucking watch it, but these people are 

[00:48:54] Brian: well, well, you're, you're, you're joined by a lot of people,

[00:48:57] Alex: Gail Gale King is getting paid $16 million,

[00:48:59] Troy: they got 13 million.

Alex. 

[00:49:01] Brian: Well, 

yeah. That, that needs to be

[00:49:03] Alex: I

[00:49:03] Brian: and that will be fixed. The 

[00:49:06] Alex: she, 

[00:49:06] Brian: to everyone. 

[00:49:07] Alex: that's where you can kind of start saving money.

[00:49:10] Brian: Well, you can save money, but the question is how do you grow? And I think all of these 

[00:49:14] Alex: You don't grow it, you shrink it down like the CBS needs needs to be shrunk down to its smallest unit. Stay very boring and true to whatever they're doing, and then they need to open a hole. It's like, like you've got factories building car engines with oil and you know, these are kind of gonna go out of fashion at some point, but you gotta keep it running for a while.

So you shrink that down to the most minimum and then you say, here's this brand new shit we're building. It's something completely new with the, with with the money that we're

[00:49:40] Troy: You give it a name, Alex. Sustainable Abundance.

[00:49:43] Alex: sustainable.

[00:49:44] Brian: so I think that is the challenge, Troy, right? I mean like how do you operate the old business that is going, that is just going into terminal decline and you have to manage it. Like, I mean, my brother-in-law looks after like mainframe data centers that are not yet in the cloud. Like they still exist.

They're out there, they need to be deprecated. They have contracts that legally require them to be operated for decades, and so they have to do this transition. This is part of the transition and it's not, it is not like an inspiring message to the troops that we're in the business of, you know, extracting the value in these assets that are in terminal decline.

How do you go to a workforce with that message? You simply can't, 

[00:50:31] Troy: Mm-hmm. I mean, I think partly I, I think that's what she did. By saying that no one's watching your shit. You're saying that, you know, we're in terminal decline. I think that's the whole,

[00:50:43] Brian: but the message is we're gonna turn it around. We're gonna bring in independent voices, we're gonna bring in podcasters. I, I still hold that. This is Marissa Mayer. She wasn't gonna turn around Yahoo. Not because of Marissa Mayer, but just because it, it couldn't be like the only way. And Yahoo is, you know, in a way better position right now because they shrank a lot and, and, and they have a

[00:51:08] Troy: well, they, and because they're not public anymore,

I'm curious and I'm will do it this week to tune back in, to tune in, never back, but tune into CBS news and to see what they're making. And if there's, I don't think that the way back for me, someone like me is to, to say, I'm gonna watch the news on television.

I'm just doing it, you know, as a curiosity. But the, but it's like, are they going to, are they going to make podcasts, YouTube videos, you know, Instagram stories, emails that somehow reengaged me? Are they gonna do that on the back of the free press? and I think it's, it is a daunting, daunting task.

And while I've got the, the mic for one sec, I would say it reminded me, Brian, today of how, when I, I called you earlier, how great a job. The Atlantic has done in that transformation because they have taken, you know, what was it? Probably, you know, a great legacy institution, but really modernized it, you know, via, via talent and, you know, monetized through subscriptions and now fanning out into, into podcasting, in a, they announced today that they, what they hired David Brooks.

[00:52:28] Brian: Yeah, nobody used to give up the New York Times opinion page, sinecure without Lake dying.

[00:52:33] Troy: yeah, I just feel like, and listen, maybe they had, you know, the, the safety of, you know, a rich benefactor to, to make that transition easier. But that hasn't worked for Washington Post. And you know, I would argue that's been difficult at time. You know, there's a lot, there's these two paths that we're seeing now, which is.

Few can get the high road path where they reenergize their content creation machine, to live in this, you know, new set, you know, in a different landscape. Or you just, you know, live in, in a world where these are harvestable assets.

[00:53:12] Brian: Right. It's whether you're gonna go the growth path or the private equity path, let's be real. Like that's what it is. And nobody's honest about going down the, the PE path, except for the PE guys. I give them credit for their honesty. because a lot of times these assets you tell the, you tell the, the workforce that you're sending down into the minds that you know, no, we're gonna turn this around.

It's gonna be growth. We're gonna get Andrew Hu Huberman on, on 60 minutes. And, and that's gonna be good when the reality is for a lot of, of these is that they have to go down the path. I'll say it, Troy of Forbes, they need to be unsentimental and they need to, and the, the path is financializing these assets.

I don't, it's, it's sometimes not, you know, becoming. These are businesses, and as long as they're gonna operate as businesses, unless you're gonna find a benevolent billionaire and there are not many out there, you're gonna have to, find the value. And a lot of that is gonna be in harvesting. So ab is gonna be busy. 

[00:54:07] Alex: That's right. 

[00:54:08] Brian: The Atlantic has done an amazing job under Lorraine Powell jobs. and you know, I remember in 2020 she got a lot of heat because they cut 70 people, which in the Atlantic is a sizable, portion, of their workforce. As they reoriented this business, they dropped their video. They were doing like really expensive video, not video podcasts at the time.

They got out of a lot of their, they overhauled their events infrastructure 'cause they were doing a lot of these small events that are part of the, you know, DC feeding trough. And they really saw that subscriptions were the path forward. And the only way you win at subscriptions is you're completely audience focused and you have to burn the boats with a lot of the other stuff.

Now she gave them cover and license clearly to be able to make that transition. And most. Most publications don't have that, that's reality. and most aren't gonna be able to take that high

[00:55:04] Troy: Yeah, I think there's an open question in the market, Brian, as to whether you can go free to paid. Like can you build up a broad free media business and then navigate back to paid or do what, say someone like Puck done and just grow from the beginning. A vertically focused, talent focused paid business.

And that's the the semaphore question. I think that's a tough one.

[00:55:30] Brian: yes, Alex had a hard stop by the way. He dropped, dropped out. I think there, there is two school schools of thought. I think the seven four, argument, against, I guess the puck argument would be, look at the New York Times. Look at Bloomberg. Bloomberg was able to navigate a shift to, to a, a paywall.

Just fine. they've got a robust paywall, now, and I think that there are advantages, obviously, to conditioning the audience from the beginning. And there are also advantages in the marketplace, even with an indirect, revenue model

that give 

[00:56:08] Troy: interesting to look at how Bloomberg did it. They did it with just raw inevitability. They cover so much. I hit their paywall more than anybody. I hit their paywall every day. It's so annoying.

[00:56:20] Brian: Yeah. And they're not great. They're not, they're not great at remembering,you're logged in. That's something that has long frustrated me. On the other hand, we have the Washington Post. So the Washington Post is, is just perpetually mired in problems. I don't even remember when it wasn't. I mean, it seems like.

A generation ago that we were writing at Digiday about how the New York Post had a bigger comScore audience than the New York Times. Simple. Those were simpler times. and the Washington Post is making, I guess on the one hand you could look at it as difficult decisions. You know, they're, they're pulling out of their Olympics coverage.

They're really cutting into, into sports and, and other coverage areas. And this, this is difficult to, to pull off because for a simple reason, I don't know what the Washington Post wants to be 

[00:57:13] Troy: Yeah, well, it's a political publication because it's a, you know, they, like many live in a company town and not only has there been a tremendous amount of competition in that space, you know, for a long time with Politico and Axios and, and Punchbowl and, semaphore and Puck.

But, it's hard, I think, to do an open heart values transplant in a company and not just live with, you know, the kind of years of agita that that creates. That's just a huge distraction to progress. 

[00:57:47] Brian: Yeah. It's been a very rough path there. And Sean Griffey actually made a, a really good point. He's the former, CEO of industry dive and, and really one of the few winners of the last, you know, era of digital media with industry dive, they had a massive exit, like 500 plus million dollars in, you know, an unglamorous area.

I think Sean would agree with that, which is B2B. And they went into, they went deep into, you know, markets like waste and energy and whatnot. But he made the point, you know, he just going through the Washington Post like product, there's just a lack of discipline there. They're not doing the simple things right.

And that's what I, I mean by this being like an execution business. Like you go to their food coverage, it doesn't make sense and they're not organized properly. And you know that I think betrays a. It doesn't really matter the strategy. I feel like in media, if you're not executing on the basics, you don't have a shot.

Whereas you'd compare that to like the tech industry, which usually operates in completely different markets, and they can make a ton of mistakes. They can make. They, you just don't have room for the kind of errors in, in this business, and particularly in this, in this market that's, that's in severe compression.

You just can't cover it. Cover it up. I feel like 


[00:59:05] Local News and Nonprofit Models
---

[00:59:05] Brian: one interesting thing that I notice is the Philadelphia Inquirer is profitable, 

which, 

[00:59:10] Troy: cares

[00:59:12] Brian: well, if you're from,the Philadelphia area, you, you, you care, to a large degree. I think, you know, making local news, work is an important

[00:59:21] Troy: Other than you and a nice sandwich, I'm still trying to figure out what's great about Philly. 

[00:59:26] Brian: I, we can go over that into, in, in, in a different episode. look, people from Philly have a lot of, a lot of pride in being from Philly. I've noticed a lot of them don't still live in Philadelphia, but that's, that is that, that is a, a strange juxta juxtaposition. but it's, it's in a nonprofit model.

Lenfest is, is its, is its backer. And look what's going on in Minnesota right now and, and in, in Minneapolis really, is testament to the need for strong. Local news, you know? And so I, I hope that local news finds a model. Perhaps, perhaps Lisa Yus has found one. I'm gonna try to get her on, on the rebooting show to discuss, how they got to profitability.

But good news. Did you see Kanye? I guess he's Yee. Is it Yee or Ye I mispronounce everything. 

Um, um, 

uh, it should be yay though. Yee took out a full page ad in the Wall Street Journal to make an apology. he blames

[01:00:25] Troy: when people take out full page ads to say, I'm not insane anymore. You don't believe them? 

[01:00:30] Brian: well, I found it interesting that he decided to take the ad out. Like he could have just, you know, published a, a, a post or,

you know, 

[01:00:38] Troy: Taking out a full page in the Wall Street journal's. Always the end of the run PR move. It's like we gotta do the ultimate thing, bring out the bomb. We're gonna take out a full page ad in 

[01:00:49] Brian: I, it's not scalable, but I, I did immediately when I saw it, beyond the substance of the apology and whether to believe it or not, and or to believe that he had brain damage that caused his bipolar disorder and caused him to say all those anti-Semitic and crazy things. that aside, I was like, oh, maybe this is a new source of incremental revenue. 

[01:01:09] Troy: Full page ads for insane people.

[01:01:12] Brian: They were trying to worm their way back.

[01:01:14] Troy: Nice. It's a great ad product.

[01:01:17] Brian: I don't know. Also, final thing is, did you see like Forbes is getting into the prediction markets? 

[01:01:23] Troy: Yeah. I 

don't, I don't have no comment.

[01:01:25] Brian: no comment. other thing, uh.

[01:01:28] Troy: markets are gonna be woven through every piece of content everywhere we predicted that we know that's going to happen. I know You think that the, that the externalities are overwhelming. I think prediction markets are way less nefarious than sports gambling, where the house takes so much money you know, people will do it.

Why does a dog lick its balls?

[01:01:51] Brian: I think this could also be filed under that, which is, I mean, I had like PTSD when I got this email from Yahoo, that Yahoo is back, is back with search. It's, it's got Yahoo Scout, which is a new AI answer engine. 

[01:02:07] Troy: it's

[01:02:07] Brian: gonna, 

I haven't tried it yet. I've, I've heard mixed things about it. I don't. I don't think people use, I mean, look, if you have like a front page, like they, they have still, and they have all, of that built in distribution, you're gonna get some people to stumble upon, your search product.

I don't know, tell me if I'm wrong. Like, I mean, this is like, I think it's fun that they're, they're, they're doing something

[01:02:31] Troy: Oh, I, I don't think that there's, there's, they're suggesting that they're gonna take back the mantle, but I think that, you know, it's like their product. It is like when you're, you know, using, you know, clod bot or, you know, advanced LLM, Gemini inside of natively, inside of your Chrome browser, to me feels, you know, infinitely more powerful than, you know, a fairly anodyne, Yahoo answer engine that's not unlike perplexity.

it's really just the modernization of that surface. but I think that, you know, you're seeing with them, the kind of weaving of AI through the entire, you know, Yahoo Surface area so that you know, it's better at getting you financial information and aggregating up, you know, a perspective on a company inside of finance.

It's better at comparing odds in sports or helping you with your. Your fantasy thing inside of Yahoo Sports, it's better at summarizing your emails inside of Yahoo email, and it's better at, you know, curating and aggregating news for you. You know, if you're a Yahoo Homepage user, all of those things, the interface layer just gets better with AI and searches the purest, you know, go direct and get pure extraction around what you want.

If you try it. It's called, I think it's called Scout, you said? Yeah. scout. 

[01:03:54] Brian: His scout. 

[01:03:54] Troy: It works fine. And I think for a lot of people it's gonna be seen as an, you know, an incremental improvement into the Yahoo interface. So I think that's what they have to keep doing. I, you know, maybe along the way they'll find a breakout product that, you know, a single breakout product could be worth, you know, as much as the entire Yahoo.

So keep using that distribution. Keep modernizing it, keep trying to, to retain, you know, your, your base, your large base of customers, and along the way look for something that's gonna maybe, you know, accelerate a transformation. I think it's the right play, and I think that they've, they've done a good job of cleaning it up.

[01:04:35] Brian: Okay, good news. and final thing before we get to good product, I dunno if you saw, but Treasury Sector Secretary Scott Scent took a shot at Swiss Food and particularly the Swiss German food. he said after a few days of Swiss German food, I may switch to bugs. this 'cause the Davos crowd was not like nice to him.

And I have to say, you know, I don't agree with the Trump administration. Probably 99 out of 10 times or 99 out of 10 times actually, on this one I'm kind of with it. Like I don't think, I think Swiss food is kind of like, horrific. 

[01:05:05] Troy: well I'm, there's that great restaurant that serves Roasty and Veal, and I'm going there in two weeks to Switzerland. The restaurant is called, Cronin How, amazing Vibes, and they make incredible roasty, which is as far as I can tell, the, the one reason that, that, that Scott's wrong. What's more interesting about Scott is how his rhetoric has been transformed by. By Trump and now he, you know, he slings shit at people all the time. I liked, I liked how he attacked Gavin Newsom

[01:05:40] Brian: Yeah. No, he's, he's, he's figured out, he's, he's become an interesting, character I guess I would say. cause he is been able to straddle a line of being, he's an institutionalist at the end of the day. I mean, he is, he, I mean, the guy came out of Soros. Capital, like, I mean, and now he's, he's a populist, he steps in it sometimes because, you know, he's, he's in a, he's in a populist era and he's like the farthest thing from a populace.

So he, he did make a comment about like, you know, that the real estate situation, that a lot of like older people have like 5, 8, 12 houses that they depend on for their retirement and they are on a fixed income. So, you know, that was not, not great. All right. Should we do a good product?


[01:06:24] Good Product
---

​

[01:06:26] Troy: I would go to something maybe thematically aligned and slightly conceptual this week. y you know, I think that part of the theme of the episode was, you know, the confusion that we all feel, between, you know right and wrong, where we're going, who to cheer for, maybe that's not that hard, but,who to trust mo most importantly.

and it's, these are, these are wicked, wicked times. And so, you know, I think that the answer, the, the simplest answer would be the most obvious to someone like my wife. And it would always be community and people. community always brings, You know, a warmth that, you know, in, on a cold, snowy New York Day, that everything's gonna be okay.

I was reminded last night, I played tennis last night with a friend and we sat at the bar and it was, you know, in what, what otherwise would've been a real may day. You know, like it was a great, a great thing to do just to hang with someone, play a game, have a beer. And then I got home and my, my wife and two of our good friends, she typically does it every Wednesday, which I think is a great. Thing to do is to have, you know, routines. But they come over, they order food and they play ROI cube. sometimes there's four, three people, sometimes there's six people. it's an old fashioned board game, people, friends hanging around, eating, you know, tie takeout I think it's really wonderful 

[01:07:53] Brian: And it's an old school board. Board game. I might add, like people out there, uh, us, you know, the Gen Z listeners, there were only like eight board games that existed. Like we didn't have that many board games. It was like risk, monopoly, rummy, Rummy cube. Like there weren't that many. I feel like boggle. 

[01:08:10] Troy: You know, even the pod, you know, this notion of podcasting versus the network mind. The problem with on-demand media and certainly manifested in, in something like YouTube that I watch a lot of is it's hyper personal. It's not very community-based. So even making the effort to sit down with your family or someone in your family and watch a show together is the most basic form of communal living.

And if you go to your YouTube feed on your television, which would be my default if I wanted to just, you know, turn off, it's, it's like shit that, you know, no one else would ever wanna watch. You know, the algorithmically driven media stream is, is very personal. It's not a social thing. 

And you know, it's totally tuned to your interests.

So, that's the place, you know, the, the, the warm fire of the com communally consumed television show is, is really important to, to people 

[01:09:08] Brian: I agree. 

[01:09:08] Troy: anyway. Community is a good product.

[01:09:10] Brian: Community is a good product, will always be a good product. Difficult to pull off. A lot of publishers want to get into to community. I had a breakfast yesterday with a lot of leading publishers and they're all talking about trying to move more into quote unquote community-based models.

very difficult to pull off. these are, these are tough businesses and, it's particularly difficult to pull off when you have been not in that mindset whatsoever. All of your DNA, was about running a business, and I hear it a lot of times from people who had these page view machines. I mean, we saw like bi, they're the CRO, Maggie Milow, left, and a Maggie is great.

and they are in a difficult position at bi and. They've talked about moving to an events like model, which I guess is like the easy way to say we're gonna do community, and I don't know if they're gonna be able to pull it off, you know, because the, the brand was built in a different way. I hope it, I have still friends there.

I hope they, they can find a path. I don't know if they can.

[01:10:16] Troy: The non-paid tax model, unless it's buttressed by something you know, really differentiated and monetizable, you're in deep trouble. If you rely on free scale and what was largely text content creation, unless you have a robust video business or an events business or a merch business or an affiliate business, you're in deep trouble. 

[01:10:42] Brian: Yeah, you need some kind of side business that's gonna fund this. And when your organizing principle was, and look, I get it, it was a different era. I, Henry used to put this slide up. I saw him one time like actually in Europe do it where he compared the cost of producing content at BI to the cost of producing content at the Wall Street Journal in the New York Times.

And the bet was always, look, these guys spend way too much money creating content. We're gonna create content at a far lower cost. Is it gonna be of the same quality? Well, no. I mean, they didn't say that part, but that was like the reality. But it's gonna be free. And free always wins in the market. And programmatic was, was thought of at the time as, as the way that you build these businesses.

And now that's not the case anymore. So trying to rebuild that, that business for a different time, it's just by definition

[01:11:33] Troy: Yeah, my observation there was I shared with you is bifurcating a media business against free and paid in these times is, is almost impossible.

[01:11:42] Brian: Yeah. Yeah. And that's what they tried to do it, they tried to like be half B2B, half cheese content, cheese related content. Lot of fondue. Speaking of Switzerland, not a 

fondue 

fan. 


[01:11:54] Outro
---

[01:11:54] Troy: That's it for this episode of people versus algorithms where each week we uncover patterns shaping media culture and technology. Big thanks as always to our producer, Vanja Arsenov. She always makes us a little clearer and more understandable and we appreciate her very, very much. If you're enjoying these conversations, we'd love for you to leave us a review.

It helps us get the word out and keeps our community growing. Remember, you can find People vs. Algorithms on Apple Podcasts, on Spotify, and now on YouTube. Thanks for listening and we'll see you again next week.

[01:12:28] Brian: Okay.

[01:12:29] Troy: 

good, good stuff. 

[01:12:30] Brian: I'm gonna stop this. 

