PvA S4E152
===


[00:00:00] Open
---

​

[00:00:01] Troy: The new ones are coming in the mail today.

[00:00:03] Brian: New headphones.

[00:00:04] Troy: The new

[00:00:05] Alex: And the AirPods. Yeah, how you got them too.

[00:00:07] Troy: I wanna spy on the people on the, Vanderbilt massage place. See what they're saying with the real time translation.

[00:00:14] Alex: 

[00:00:14] Brian: Oh wait, you can, so like if people are talking about you in obscure language, you can find this out. Oh my God, this is gonna be super valuable with my Serbian encounters. Ah, this is great. leverage is gone. My Serbian friends, 


[00:00:31] Welcome
---

[00:00:31] Brian: ​

so let's get started. Welcome to people versus algorithms. Show about, free speech, detecting patterns in media technology culture. us always by Troy Young. Troy, welcome.

[00:00:53] Troy: Hi Brian.

[00:00:55] Brian: Excited to be here and Alex Schleifer.

[00:00:58] Alex: Hello. I have a hard stop at.

[00:01:00] Brian: Yeah, no, we'd know. And ab AKA anonymous banker, is going to be joining us, a little bit later. let's start, I mean, this, we, we sort of crammed. 


[00:01:10] Trump's War On Media & Free Speech
---

[00:01:11] Brian: We were gonna cover this, a little bit, but let's, let's focus on this. you know, I, I made a little passing comment about, free speech, but I think the inevitable has come to pass.

We have been heading in this direction for a little while, and it was inevitable that Trump, was going to take aim at quote unquote the media. And he has been doing that in various way, shapes or form, and, it's pretty predictable. What, what has happened now. Trump has, the FCC basically muscled a, b, C into, suspending Jimmy Kimmel show after Jimmy Kimmel, made some.

[00:01:49] Alex: I would say fairly, I mean, maybe I have a wide latitude, some fairly odine, remarks and, a joke on, on his show, the other night. It was right. I was trying to watch it and I was like, is this it? Because

[00:02:03] Brian: yeah, I mean, it's, it's, you know, this, you know, obviously the, there's this. Quote, unquote fraught environment after the murder of Charlie Kirk. opportunist to the left, opportunist to the right,Kimmel basically has been a longtime critic of, Donald Trump. he, and he basically said the MAGA gang is desperately trying to characterize this kid who murdered Charlie Kirk as anything other than one of them, and doing everything they can to score political points from it.

In between the finger pointing there was grieving and, and then he played the clip of, Trump. segueing from,talking about Charlie Kirk into, talking about his construction projects at the White House, I'm not a big Jimmy Kimmel fan. I'm a big free speech fan. this is, You know, part of a larger assault that Trump has been doing on, on all kinds of institutions of a free and open society.

so this is a big test. You know, he, earlier this week, he, filed a $15 billion lawsuit against the New York Times for a variety of claims, including giving too much credit to Mark Burnett for the success 

of 

The Apprentice.paramount has caved to Donald Trump,already, settling a species lawsuit in order to get its merger deal through.

Trump has discovered, as he always does, that, that the levers of power, and he's using those to, to muscle all kinds of, of, media and, You know, this, the murder of Charlie Kirk has become, you know, right after it happened there was, there was voices calling for it to be the quote unquote rights dog fire.

and this is the pretext and, I think it's really bad. I, I, I don't, I don't usually traffic a catastrophize, but this is, this is pretty awful. I think. am I, am I going crazy, Troy?

[00:03:53] Troy: No, I think it's bad. I mean, free speech by, its, by necessity needs to accommodate everything, including,

[00:04:00] Brian: even that, this isn't even that

[00:04:02] Troy: including all forms of humor 

and comedy. Yeah. It was, it's very troubling. And,I think that just a couple things that underneath a bit, this is a sort of side issue, but the notion that discerning what the affiliations or motivations of the shooter are, were in the.

Kirk assassination are insane to me. I mean, if you just kind of deconstruct that and you think that it really matters what some alienated, like, you know, very online fuck up, what motivated this person? and that's somehow is going to influence, you know, any, anything is, is completely insane. Like, who cares? Who cares? And so the, the whole, like the joke that Kimmel made started there, right? And he said, how can you suggest that he was anything but a MAGA person? and I mean, I guess that's deeply offensive to MAGA people, but a lot of things that are said in, you

[00:05:11] Brian: It's the whole point. The whole point of 

[00:05:14] Troy: That's the whole point. Right. I also felt like, and, and I know you'll get to this when we talk about state media, because I've been calling all in state media for a long time as you recall.

the, there's a fracture coming in all in and it comes from this particular issue. And it was, the boys, even Freeberg, who we always sort of held out hope for, that he wasn't so massively kind of red pill, that he lost all kind of decent and good perspective on things. He was always the sort of rationalist, right.

That we could, we could somehow trust lapping up Trump in the Oval Office. By the way, Trump has made the Oval Office disgusting.

[00:05:53] Brian: is beautiful. All this gold does this gold

[00:05:55] Troy: mean, it's just disgusting. Yeah. I

[00:05:58] Brian: I'd love to see their homes if it, if it looks anything

[00:06:01] Troy: Yeah. And it just kind of, it felt. Extremely strange to have them fawning over, you know, the Declaration of Independence that, that Trump had brought up into the sunlight.

and, and framed on the wall of the, of the, of the Oval Office

[00:06:18] Brian: is the ultimate aphrodisiac.

[00:06:20] Troy: just the Syco Sea. The thickness of it is disgusting. But then to watch, Jason, who either wasn't invited or said he didn't want to come,

[00:06:30] Brian: Yeah. Jason is the hero of this tale. I

[00:06:33] Troy: he, he's the hero. He's 

[00:06:35] Alex: that's just the

biggest plot, the biggest plot, twist ever is Jason

[00:06:39] Brian: Oh God.

[00:06:41] Alex: the spine.

[00:06:42] Brian: I find myself agreeing with Tucker Carlson on free speech. Jason is the hero in this tale.

[00:06:47] Troy: yeah. People I strongly agree with today. Carl Rove, Tucker Carlson. Charlie Kirk and Glen Greenwald. Right. Like That was Jason. So, so, so I think, we'll the more to come on that story and the only silver lining here is how futile this will be. not only is Kimmel martyred, but the good part about sort of the network, right, media on the network, which has all kinds of externalities as we, we see every day, is that, you know, there's always a, a, a node to root.

You can always root the information in any direction you want. This will, it's impossible. Like Nexstar may say, you know, we don't like, who cares about the late

Sinclair. Sinclair and Nexstar. Yeah. it does expose that for a certain segment of the population. These, you know, large concentrated networks of local broadcasters are very powerful, when they can decide to kick the late show off and put on an hour tribute to, to Kirk and to basically shut down a, a, a network show.

But, there are, you know, I mean, they're irrelevant, but to a small segment of the audience, and obviously the wake that comes off, something that's said by something that's on traditional or broadcast television, but the, you know, the network will make sense of all of this. And the people that matter now and in the future don't get their, you know, don't get their information

[00:08:14] Brian: Yeah. I, I want to be, I want to be optimistic, but I don't think it stops here. I think when, when we, we hear about the, you know, delineation between free speech and hate speech by the Attorney General of the United States of America, that gives me pause that it's going to stop with Jimmy Kimmel and late night, hosts.

I think overall, you know, free speech and it's gonna expose how unprincipled a lot of people are. You know, I think, you know, Glenn Greenwald for, for all of my issues with him, I think he's actually principled. I don't always agree with him, but I think he's principled. I don't think Tucker is principled, but I think it's going to expose a lot of people, who don't really have, any principles at all and, and just care about their side winning.

if this does continue. Alex, you're gonna have to get me an invite to the Trump Derangement syndrome meetings. I'm, I'm on board, put in a good word for me on blue sky. 

[00:09:13] Alex: yeah. I mean, we know, we know the playbook. just now we're need to see how, how solid the infrastructure is to make sure it doesn't happen. But, 

[00:09:22] Troy: I mean, the world is gonna need to go through some massive detoxification. The, the amount of shame surging through our, our, our bloodstream is incredible. And just to look at what went on in the UK this week, Alex, like the things that that government did to show fealty to Donald Trump is sickening.

Sickening. 

[00:09:45] Brian: were some of the things I, I saw a little

[00:09:47] Troy: Well, there's never been a reception like that in history.

[00:09:51] Brian: that what Trump said or is that like. We've never had a reception like this ever.

[00:09:56] Troy: No. Look it up. Look it up. Look at what they did. Look, look at

[00:10:00] Alex: You know, I mean, I, I heard somebody talk about Zuckerberg yesterday and, and, I think it was listening to the channels with, uh, what. Kafka. 

Yeah. He was inter interviewing Alex Heath, who was a Verge reporter, who, who, who, who started a substack, and left the verge.

but Peter asked Alex Heath, like, you know, if he thought, Zuckerberg's politics were exposed in the Trump era, and he says. No, you know, he thinks that he's just a capitalist and he thinks that a lot of the tech people, I, it's just capitalism, right? It's just transactional. And we've mentioned it before.

but I, it is, I mean, hopefully, I don't know, it's, it's not gonna last forever. And that is, is that the new norm after that? Like, is that, you know, like if you have somebody that, you know, you'll always see a kid at the. Walmart that throws a tantrum and the parents just fawn around it and try to give it ice cream so it stops screaming.

but it's like, is that, is that long term plan here? Is everybody just putting it, you know, putting their standards behind them and, and saying, well, it's just capitalism, it's just transactional. This is fine. or do they mean it? I don't know. It's hard to tell, right? Like, I mean, do

[00:11:12] Troy: Or, yeah, yeah. Or like, you know, again, at this, this, you know. King's dinner in the United Kingdom. Trump was joined by this white, white tie dinner was joined by, you know, all the people, Tim Cook, Sam Altman, probably Bezos, they all felt it was, you know, in their interest to get on their PJs and, and fly over to join Trump in his, you know, this kind of ceremonious moment in the United Kingdom.

I mean, clearly they all have investments in, in, in the country and in Europe, but 

[00:11:46] Brian: I don't think that was the motivation. I could be wrong. No offense to our British friends.

[00:11:52] Troy: yeah. But, getting, again, getting that outta your system later is gonna, is gonna feel bad. It's gonna feel really bad.

[00:11:59] Brian: Yeah. Not a lot of people covering themselves in glory. Bob Iger, should not, rig out of this.

[00:12:04] Troy: He didn't go actually, but,

[00:12:06] Brian: I, I know, but he made, he made the ultimate, alligator arms business decision. you know, the ball goes over the middle and, you know, wide receiver either goes out and gets it and takes the hit, Alex, this is American football, or they get alligator arms, you know, and, and they can't reach the ball because they don't wanna get hit.

that's what Bob, Bob Iger chose. And a lot of these, media companies are choosing, in the words of Brendan Carr, the easy way out. He said, we can do this, the, the hard way or the easy way. And it turns out that a lot of these companies, because of the size of them and the very, and they're varied interests, are extremely vulnerable.

they're vulnerable to, to pressure on a lot of different fronts. and in 

a 

[00:12:47] Troy: could you play 

[00:12:48] Brian: industry 

[00:12:49] Troy: Could you play that back to me for a minute? From the mind of Bob Iger, you know, late in your career, you know,

[00:12:56] Brian: should have never come outta retirement.

That what I 

[00:12:59] Troy: right, but, but you, 

[00:13:00] Alex: that's probably the one thing that goes through your mind.

[00:13:03] Troy: Rather than 

[00:13:04] Brian: Why did I hang out in Malibu? 

[00:13:05] Troy: you know, rather than take a principled stand, you fear that this would be the beginning of the end for your network, and it's in the res, you know, it's in, it's your responsibility, as a, a representative of the shareholders to, to bend the knee.

[00:13:22] Brian: I, well, you tell me. You, you have more, you have, you have more entree into the corridors of power than

[00:13:30] Troy: No, I, yeah, I, I, I think it's, the math is that simple. It's just that when do you get into a place where you can be principled and not give a fuck. 

[00:13:38] Alex: I,

[00:13:39] Brian: the stock. By the way, the Disney stock is at least down 1% today, so.

[00:13:43] Alex: yeah, those broadcast assets. I mean, I think they're, you, you maybe potentially accelerate the demise of them for one, two, like.you know, those late, those late night shows are on their way out. Everybody knows that. So it's probably a calculation of like, well, we're probably gonna cancel this thing anyway, so we might as well throw people a bone and show that

[00:14:02] Troy: Yeah, I get all 

that 

Alex, but, 

at the

[00:14:04] Alex: but, but, but,

[00:14:06] Troy: Distinguished Man with a lot of people in the world that look up 

to. 

[00:14:10] Alex: am, I am.

[00:14:11] Brian: Yeah, 

he wrote a whole book, a like little ha geography for himself of like, you know what a great leader he is. And this 

is the 

thing that I find everyone likes to talk about principles until like the bill comes.

[00:14:23] Alex: Well, the, but the thing is, like, just from a self-serving point of view, I like the, the relationship this builds with talent, right? Like the talent that you have, like all of these media companies and IP companies are completely dependent on talent, whether it's just like on air people, the writers and stuff like that.

And just making these decision just puts you on the other side of that. And I, I wonder like. Like, what did he gain from this? Everybody's gonna have forgotten about it, in a bit. but it's gonna be so loud. You know, Kimmel's gonna be a martyr more relevant than ever. it begs to question like, if you're kind of somebody talented that's on broadcast TV today, why, you know, like, why wouldn't you be on YouTube?

Like, why don't you 

do. Like, and maybe the great way to do it is to get forced out, because then you get a payout, right? Just go, go on, just go ham, make a big splash, get your check on the way out and, you know, hit the ground running on YouTube. 

Like, that's, that's the playbook for anyone that, I mean, there's two left, right?

There's the other Jimmy, and, Seth Mayers. Just burn the bridge and just bring your fans with you. I, I don't know. 

What's going to be interesting is going to be South Park 'cause they just paid a cool half billion for South Park or

whatever. Oh. Billion 

and a 

half, shit.

Um, 

[00:15:45] Brian: that's not Disney. That's

[00:15:46] Alex: know it's not Disney, 

but like, but that's, you know, but Paramount has its own allegiances now.

Right. And,

[00:15:52] Brian: Oh yeah. I mean, if you, if you look at the Paramount thing now with, David Ellison and his, and his daddy is bankrolling this, right? And so Daddy has now has his cl claws into TikTok. So you have, you have like a real, like makings and he's clearly moving them to the, the right, and you have real makings of state media happening.

I think, I mean, I, I like, to me, I'm like, if you add up all

[00:16:18] Alex: Everybody's acting. Everybody's acting surprised that the tr. That you know

[00:16:23] Troy: no, this was inevitable. This was inevitable. It's bad. It's very bad. Not a big fan of it.should we move on from this topic? It's a very big topic. I, we go on forever for this.Brian, I'd like to, I mean, I'm, I'm curious, what do you think happens next?

[00:16:37] Brian: what do I think happens next? it's a good question. I don't really, I don't, I, I think what, what I'm interested in is. You know, the smartest thing that was ever said to me about Trump was actually before he took office, Paul Rossi, who was then the president of the Economist at his, we used to do these events, in Japan, and he was speaking to me on stage before one and at, at one, and he, he said that Trump is, is like, he uses power like price discovery.

He just sees how much power he can get and just keeps going until he gets, pushback. I think this is an issue and maybe I'm being too optimistic. that will expose a lot of the weaknesses in his coalition. And also the fact that he's not a very popular president. I just don't believe that the American people at the end of the day, like to be told what to say.

And do. They just, they just, it's just not very American. The experience of, of this country is completely, different than that. there's other political cultures that are, are better with authoritarianism. And then within his, within his coalition, he's got, he's been able to hold together a very strange coalition.

Okay. And it is being, the fissures in it are going to be exposed. They're, they're being exposed. And you look at someone, it unfortunately, or fortunately, it's important, what Tucker Carlson actually does with this. He has made very clear that he is against all this conflating of hate speech. our, our, our attacks on free speech, you know, with this idea of going after hate speech.

He's been very outspoken on this and there's a lot of people on the right who have built their brands on railing against far worse, far less intrusive, acts of the government, when it comes to free expression. And, I think this is a, I think this is a, a, a fraught issue. And I know, I know that a lot of people have lost a lot of money betting on Trump over playing his hand.

But, I could also see like a mini like Trump bump 2.0 in

[00:18:42] Troy: Those are great points, Brian. I think that in, in understanding Trump, you always have to see where's the leverage, and here the FCC can take away your spectrum. So you have tremendous leverage to do what's in the public interest and threaten to take away someone's ability to broadcast, right? So, and then what Trump's game is always to take it to the edge and either decide at that point to kind of dial it back, see what the public response is, ignore it.

you know, in pursuit of a, you know, bigger, more ambitious, more whatever the, your objective is. And, and I think this one's gonna get hard to ignore, to your point. And, and, and I think that, you know, Tucker's never seen a wave of controversy that he didn't wanna surf. And, you know, he's the modern Loki.

That's what he is. And he, this is a perfect way for him and, and a perfect time to sort of step outside of, you know, of, of the, 

the, 

[00:19:38] Alex: what what has, what has he been doing? Like, I, I

[00:19:41] Troy: Oh, he's Brian, you can, you can

[00:19:43] Brian: I mean, I have been, I have been

[00:19:46] Alex: I don't, I don't, I'm not subscribed to his channel.

[00:19:49] Brian: There's a very fascinating like, sort of thing post, there's, there's a power struggle within this, this fever swamp post, Charlie Kirk to try to basically take over his group of like supporters. And the question is where they will move. Like, I think some people actually tried to pinpoint Charlie Kirk as like a quote unquote moderate, and that seemed ridiculous.

But he sort of is, if you compare him to like the Nick Fuentes crowd and like Nick Fuentes, for anyone who doesn't know him, I, I've talked about him here because he's like basically a Christian, white Christian nationalist. He's a young guy. He's unbelievably talented and he scares me because he's a very talented,just entertainer information entrepreneur.

And he's looking to take.this group into like the groupers, if you will. Tucker Carlson is, is involved. Candace Owens is involved. Ben Shapiro is involved in the question is like, who is going to, and like, it's not really clear where that is going to land. And a lot, to me, the fulcrum of a lot of this stuff comes down to a lot of the free speech debates that have been go, that have been, roiling,

[00:21:04] Troy: Yep. This is where it gets complicated and this is where you have to look at. This is why I was at one of the reasons I was asking, what happens next? And you look for the leverage points. So it's easy to see in broadcast media how you can, You, you, well, how you have, you know, tons of leverage you, or if you don't have that leverage, you use lawsuits like you do with the New York Times.

The question is what happens with the platforms, right? And the mis and, and, the leverage point with the platforms is section two 30, right? And it's to what extent are they accountable legally for the content that sits on their platforms? And, and historically, I mean, there's so much cognitive dissonance and hypocrisy in the whole thing because, you know, free speech becomes anything.

But, you know, what could Trump do to YouTube as an example to get them to, you know, tamp down any dissident voices that exist there. Right. And what would that, and what would be the reaction of, of Sundar and the, the, the sort of controlling forces inside of like the real networks that matter?

Facebook.

[00:22:13] Alex: Yeah, I mean, I think, I think also. if the battle moves on to that, the, the problem that these platforms have, I mean, you can take a show off the air, right? But, YouTube and Reddit and all of these folks have learned what happens when you try to kind of individually sensor or mess with mess with any one of the shows. I mean, I think there's always a, a, a massive kind of response to that. It's, it's pretty existential for them as well. them coming in and asking YouTube to remove a show I think is Ion impossible. 

[00:22:47] Brian: Yeah, I mean, someone like, you know, Nick, Nick Fuentes is a great example. You know, he was banned from YouTube in 2020, in TikTok. His, you know, his content is restricted, et cetera. He, he's never been more powerful. You know, so, look at Alex Jones. I mean, Alex Jones was able to, he's still, he's still around.

[00:23:05] Alex: I mean, it's the, it's, it's, it's the internet. And I think what happens is, like what these, the, these companies, what they usually have, You know, this may be under reported, but the way they manage this stuff is through algorithm tweaking, right? So the really nasty shit, or the shit that people don't wanna see just gets buried and buried and buried.

They, they very rarely want to take direct action unless it's very clearly a copyright infringement or some sort of hate speech. But the problem with the algorithm shift is it's not perform. Like it's really performative to fire Jimmy Kimmel, but like Google, you know, you know somebody at the White House saying, Hey, they tweaked the algorithm, so some of that shit won't show up.

That's worth nothing to them

[00:23:44] Brian: You need the equivalent of like a ribbon cutting ceremony,

[00:23:47] Alex: yeah. Yeah. And they, and it's hard for them to give that, and I think section two 30 is probably also one of the reasons why all these. People like, you know, are saying yes to be paraded. because if, if I, I feel like the option here is like, it's all a nuclear option, right?

Like you remove it, you change it. All of these business are major risk. businesses are at major risk.

[00:24:09] Troy: Oh my God. They were shitting their pants inside of the platforms this week at the kind of Utah Governor's Touch Grass moment,

[00:24:17] Alex: yeah. 

[00:24:17] Troy: you

[00:24:18] Brian: He said to get off social media Right. And touch grass. which pretty good advice, I think in general.

[00:24:24] Alex: mean in general, yes.


[00:24:25] AI Doomerism
---

[00:24:25] Brian: Can we talk about, AI doomerism? It's back. there's a new book out, I don't know if I'm gonna read it. Honestly. I think this is one where I've listened to three hours of podcasts, about this, and I think it's all I need.

Eliezer Kosky and Nate Suarez have a new book called, and this is a great title. It reminds me of,a liquor store in Miami called I Love Liquor. It's called, if Anyone Builds It, everyone Dies. so I think you kind of know you're not gonna get on the one hand, on the other hand from this kind of book.

And, I listened to a few podcasts with, either with Lea or, or with both of them. And basically it, the, the argument comes down to, There's so many unknowns and unknown unknowns of, of ai, and it hinges on this idea that you have one shot of building this thing and that this isn't a typical test and learn engineering situation.

It is one where the default outcome becomes catastrophic. I find this a interesting academic argument. I, and it's, it reminds me of like how the, the maximalist are like their own version of extremists. Like, I mean, I found him a nice guy, but Pablos was kind of an extremist, to be honest to me.

Like he seemed like he begrudgingly, was okay with, with seat belts. I brought those up. and that's fine. I think we need, we need, we need to hear both sides. And this to me is just another sort of. Extreme side. And I feel both, both of these sides are like, you know, in the Silicon Valley formulation, they're forks of, of, of the same source.

And that source is the, the sort of strange fever swamp that Alex, lives in, in Silicon Valley. Like, I mean, this is just Berkeley like talking, you know, with this extremist stuff. Alex, what am I, am I reading this wrong? I, I, I can't take this stuff seriously when

[00:26:20] Troy: It says, you pointed out it's Berkeley versus Atherton.

[00:26:23] Brian: Yeah.

[00:26:24] Troy: Yeah. 

[00:26:24] Alex: the challenging thing here is that the, the people who should know. Actually don't know. And where I think the, the, and the challenge is that you can't promise people that at some point you're going to design digital God and commit that digital God is going to be benevolent.

Right. So, so the, the question is like, yeah, if you plot a line and you look at this technology and like a self perpetuating ever becoming smarter, ai, it becomes like, you know. Self-aware and sometimes in 2030, yeah, we could be in trouble. I also find that like, you know, it also depends how optimistic you're about people.

I think people who are generally, Of a disposition of being a little bit more nihilistic or have a tendency of saying, of course, if something really intelligent appears, it'll wanna kill us all because we deserve it. so, so there's like philosophy mixed in. There's futurism mixed in. All of this stuff is, is made up nonsense until it isn't.

[00:27:25] Brian: This doesn't happen in a place like Boston. This 

[00:27:28] Alex: Yeah. Well, but the truth is, like, the truth is, I think what happened is that. We had the pandemic and it kind of broke our brains, and then all of a sudden a technology really drops on our doorsteps that we thought was impossible for the foreseeable future. Does that like, like even the chat bots, as they stand today with all their faults, feel impossible. Five years before then. Does that make sense? And, and so therefore, when something like that becomes possible, then your can kind of, your aperture for what you look at, what you believe the future can become, becomes much wider. Like, oh, well, you know, now, now, now, now we've branched out into all these different. Different paths. The question is, right, like the example I give is like, Hey, we've had these, transitional lenses for glasses, you know, that turn your sunglasses, your glasses into sunglasses. they came out in the 1960s, yet the best they can do is still just make you look like somebody who shouldn't be let near school.

Right? Like, they just turn, like, they kind of turn like, you know, they, you look like Bono at a party or something. It's like kind of half dark like it's been. Like 60 years, we haven't been able to make those better. and maybe that's where technology kind of plateaus for a while, because you can talk to a computer, doesn't mean you can build like a super cent, you know?

I don't know where we made that leap, like where we said like, well, it wasn't a going concern, but now that we can chat with this stochastic par, now we can chat more naturally to a database. Of course the next step is going to be God and it's going to destroy us. but yeah. Yet is it, is it feasible?

Sure. Like, I mean, yeah. You know, like, I dunno,

[00:29:06] Brian: Yeah.

[00:29:07] Alex: there's a saying like, we're only a few minor miracles away from, from a big miracle. And, and I think Chad GPT, was a minor miracle. now whether or not, you know, we can stack the, extra to turn it into God is, is different story.

The, the problem is that they're all. Altman and Zuckerberg, that's what they want to do. That's what they wake up in the morning wanting to do. And sometimes I'm like, why is that the goal?

[00:29:32] Brian: Yeah, I wanna bring it, I wanna bring Troy in, but b before that, 'cause you mentioned miracles, just because we'd, we had discussed them before the Gen Z saint, the video gamer, did get through and, was canonized as the first millennial saint, a couple weeks ago. So 

congratulations 

[00:29:48] Alex: for him. You see gaming? Gaming

[00:29:51] Brian: came.

Yeah. You know, they, they give us the Charlie Kirk Killer, but they also give us Gen Z Saint, or no, he is a millennial saint. We don't, gen Z doesn't have any saints yet. Troy, you wrote an interesting little piece. You're getting into the narrative. You're, you're, come on over to the narrative side.

[00:30:05] Troy: You know, that was really, that was good, Alex. the, the truth is don't look at me for any answers. I don't know.I believe that. I'm generally optimistic and feel like we'll work it out.I think that the precedence that we bring forward to say, Hey, listen, we navigated the steam engine. We navigated nuclear power, nuclear bombs, we navigated, you know, all these technological

[00:30:33] Brian: do you remember the dolly? Like, you know, freak out in the nineties?

[00:30:37] Troy: yeah.

That, that either the promise of the technology was overstated or our ability to navigate it and deal with its externalities are understated. so I, I generally think like a, it's, kind of not as smart as you think it is. and b we'll figure it out, but I don't know. I don't know.

I'm, I have no idea. But what I do know is that, how do you pronounce his name? Elzer E Eli.

[00:31:05] Brian: zer.

[00:31:06] Troy: Yeah, his notion that we are going to stop all development and bomb data centers, should they surpass or pass in, in, in a moment of international, collaborate cooperation that will bomb 'em if they get over a threshold is out of the question. And that we've created a modern economy that hinges almost singularly on the success of ai and the companies that, dominate, the markets,their valuations are all tied up in the success of this technology.

So there's a lot at stake, but the, the thing that I, I think I felt, and maybe people will relate to it, is just exhaustion. And, and I kind of want someone to, to gimme the answer or tell me it's gonna be okay. Even if that means we don't know and we're gonna move on. Because just this week I was thinking about.

Look at what it's like to be a modern media consumer, navigating the information space and trying to figure out how you feel about the litany of things that happened this week, right? Like, do we, are we doomers or are we, you know, optimists, you know, in, in, in with the technology that 99% of people don't even understand.

Are we free speeches? Do we believe in, in curtailing that do, what's the difference between free speech and hate speech and, you know, government surveillance and, that's, you know, are just two items that are on the docket this week. Should Kimmel have been fired? Right? You know, what is, should we get serious about.

Platform, like the power of platforms and their impact on society. and then at the same time we, we have this other item that lands on, in, in our world, which is, oh my God, look how cool these new glasses are for meta. I want those, right? They can put things in front of my eyes. And so I, I, I think it's a time where it's really hard for people, particularly in absence of, of kind of trusted wayfinders that used to be the people that helped us through this, or at least help us, you know, kind of feel comfortable in not knowing, that, that we're in this world trying to like, kind of cut through with a machete and figure things out.

And every week there's a new level. There's like, there's five new things that we have to navigate. And, and, and that in politics, it's become less about left and right being a difference predicated on policy issues, but more on like, like an overall kind of moral s system and kind of worldview. And so

[00:33:48] Brian: I, I I feel like we, 

[00:33:50] Troy: I I guess that's really kind of a cop out, Brian, but I'm basically saying these are hard times to figure out what, like, how to navigate, you know, what's right and wrong in the world and what we should do.

And technology makes it, and AI is, is sort of the, the pinnacle of this, you know, it, it just, it just shows how complex it is to kind of NN navigate the, the issues in our world right now.

[00:34:16] Brian: Yeah. and I think it scrambles a lot of like neat narratives. I mean, we, we've kind of, we love like neat narratives. It's like AI's gonna kill us. AI is a total bubble and a dud. You know, it's, and the answer is always yes. And we always muddled through. I mean, I don't know, 

[00:34:35] Alex: Yeah, 

[00:34:36] Brian: at some 

point. 

[00:34:36] Alex: and the, the, the question that's often asked is like, is it, are we going through towards the Terminator future or the Star Trek future? Right. But I, I mean, even that, like, we're only basing ourselves on like, the stories we know and narratives is everything. And this stuff is so complex that even the people building it don't truly understand how it works.

So nobody knows. Nobody knows. But narrative, narrative we're great at as a species, right? Like that we can. we can release a book that says, you know, if it works, everybody

dies, 

You know his, his remedy section, it reminded me that it's like every book editor is gonna be like, okay, you, you lay out a compelling if theoretical case that this stuff is gonna kill us all, but we need to have some kind of, you know, prescription about how we head this off. It's like you asking, well, what's next?

Right? That's the norm editor question. And what was clear to me in their, their, what they said, what comes next is they have no, they have no serious like, agenda for, for this. This is just, playing out some kind of theoretical doom case, but like the idea that the world is gonna like lock, lock arms, sing kumbaya and like, you know, set up a, a regulation, a global regulation of data centers is just, just wholly 

[00:35:51] Brian: un 

[00:35:51] Alex: unrealistic and unserious to

I, I know what comes next, and that's the anonymous banker.

[00:35:56] Brian: Yeah, he's got an open ai, they have an open ai, hat

on.


[00:36:00] Puck-Air Mail Deal With AB
---

[00:36:00] Troy: okay, well we've been talking about these Titanic issues, but I want talk about an even bigger issue, and that is, puck buying air mail. 

[00:36:07] AB: Yeah. 

[00:36:11] Brian: This, you know, this, this is the, this is the great, you know, newsletter, you know, combination of our time. puck is, it's an all stock deal, breaker, which is a great, media newsletter. I dunno if you guys read it. I like Lachlan Cart, right? I'm having a drink with him tomorrow. he's like a, he's like a feral like Australian, like tab.

He's got a tabloid sensibility. And I think that's a fun way to like, cover a lot of, the ridiculousness of media. So check out

[00:36:38] Alex: I think it's also a good sensibility to have in this day and age of media. It's 

[00:36:43] Brian: it's great. 

[00:36:44] Alex: great. Yeah.

[00:36:45] Brian: what's, what's behind this deal? Gimme, gimme the

breakdown AB. 

[00:36:48] AB: Did it. So did it, is it really reported that it's a stock deal or did I just say that to you?

[00:36:53] Brian: I think it's been reported. Yeah.

[00:36:55] AB: Okay. Yeah. 'cause I think at first it wasn't, and when you think about how much money they, they raised like 30 million, $35 million, for air mail. If they, if Grayden started that today, he would probably raise a couple million and just turn on a substack. And so when you raise that much money and like the process started last year, it got leaked or it was in the press last year, right around this time.

And it basically took a year for that deal to get done. And so what that signals, I don't know any. Specific details, but it's like, okay, the process probably went on a long time. There was like a leak that someone else was gonna buy it. And the, the struggle that they 

[00:37:31] Brian: A leak in quotes. Go on. 

[00:37:32] AB: Yeah, 

the 

[00:37:33] Brian: You. Bankers love to leak that stuff. 

[00:37:36] AB: I don't leak anything, but, never, I don't, I don't talk about my deals to reporters. and 

so. 

[00:37:42] Brian: no guarantee it will go through.

Okay. 

[00:37:44] AB: Yeah, but basically what hap, so what hap I, I think what happened is they were in market talking to people. And when you have that much capital, and there's probably some, we've talked about this idea before of like some preference. So even though it's $30 million of investment, it may have accreted up to a little bit more value.

And so unless they could find a number that's well north of that Grayden and all the other common shareholders, were not gonna get anything. And so as soon as you lose that like higher number. It doesn't really matter if someone pays five or 30 because it's just going to, to the, to the preferred stockholders.

Yes, they need to approve the deal, but it's much easier to get a deal done like they just paid with. So as soon as I saw them and I was thinking about it, I was like, oh, this is like a stock deal. And Puck could basically choose any value that it wanted to value itself at and say, guys, we'll give you 10 or 20% of our company.

Why don't you come over here? We'll keep all the employees and we'll just keep building and see if we can build something that works out and and sell it in the future. And so for all the investors, and I think there's a bunch of overlap between investors and Puck, and. Air mail such that it made sense to combine the cap structure and yeah, they can keep going.

I mean, I think it's funny to see some of the reporting because you know, lv, some of the people that write for puck are seen as antagonistic to some of the brands that Air Mail has. I think they'll figure that out, because the brands that Air Mail has, they want the audience that's reading Puck, so it should be pretty synergistic.

[00:39:05] Brian: Yeah, I mean, breaker had written about, our friend Lauren Sherman, LVMH, apparently has not happened. Was so happy with Lauren that much, which is fine. It's a job.

[00:39:14] AB: They'll figure it out, but So what's your question?

[00:39:17] Brian: I I, my question was like, what, what, why it makes sense. outside of, I, I mean maybe Troy, I wanna bring you in. Like, I mean, does this make, does this make Puck a stronger, company And what does it say about these, these kind of stripped down models that are looking to not quite be substack, but you know, have like, basically aggregate a lot of, you know, substack like writers?

[00:39:42] Troy: I would say the following, I would say a, you have to give it to Gradin Carter, who, for, if you read his, his memoir, which is a sort of, parading of an endless series of, expensive lunches and, name droppy meetups. that, you know, Graydon's good.

And he built a model for Vanity Fair that kind of combined, you know, celebrity fashion, luxury advertising and tabloids. And, did, did a really nice job with it. And I think that what he got right. When he created Airmail was, that it needed to feel exclusive. It's really hard to do that on the internet.

That email was a good way to kind of get intimacy with readers. And I think that prior to Substack, he kind of created like Substack with Airmail. Like it was a precursor of what was to come so good on him. And I think that there's a real closeness between John Kelly who is the, the founder and, you know, center of of Puck and, and a kind of a brilliant guy actually.

And, and Grayton 

[00:40:51] Brian: He was great as assistant.

[00:40:53] Troy: And he was. So, I think when TPG or any of the investors came around and said, you know, what do we do with this thing? It's not selling. Because I think that probably their expense structure's all wrong and probably there's not enough subscribers and it's not a good business that when a bunch of people pass, they said, head over to you, John, what can you do with it?

And for John, you know, I, I think it was probably a tough decision because it was like, I don't, I got a growing business. We have all these beats. We have a singular brand in Puck that brings together our partner contributors that are deep in every vertical that. You know, but we would like a bit of a lifestyle angle.

Maybe we could jam it in on the weekend. Maybe it would help us get luxury advertising. Maybe we could take their sub list and their email list and that would be accretive to our business. And by the way, we're gonna give them a tiny sliver of our cap table. We're not gonna give 'em much 'cause we don't have to take it.

And its value is, is marginal. And I, and I really think that's what went down. Some of it was reverence for his, you know, you know, great old boss Grayden. And some of it was pressure from his investors and some of it was, Hey guys, I'll take it, but I'm not paying a lot. And he could find a way to kind of squeak it in.

And John is super ambitious by the way John sees, puck. And Puck has done a great job. I, I, I would say John sees Puck as being a very big business and a very valuable business. So, so, you know, he thinks he can absorb it.

[00:42:22] Brian: well the, I would say this in in defense, defense of the logic of it is it gives them three sort of protected ad categories that aren't exposed to the vicissitudes of algorithms and platforms. And those are the Washington, DC. Regulate us, but in a way that helps us, not that hurts us ads, they're a lucrative business.

The Google and Meta, et cetera. And OpenAI like, your, your branded cap. There are your customers. They're not your, your, enemies. That's a good business. four year consideration. They've got a big four year consideration ad this Hollywood ads, you know, not as good of a business as it used to be, but protected, Penske had had,mopped up a lot of that business.

And then Luxury. Luxury doesn't have a lot of places to go. You know, I think one of the things, I went to this Niche magazine conference. I was, I was looking around for you, ab 'cause I know that

you're a 

[00:43:13] AB: I was at a wedding. I mean, they wanted me to 

they 

wanted 

[00:43:16] Brian: Get your priorities. Get your priorities straight. Well, that's the thing, it's like, it was a niche magazine conference at WSA.

Right. Which is, a a a very strange, you know, venue that's become very popular in the art crowd, but it's, it's in, it's in the financial district, which is, I think this area is becoming, it's kind. Cool. anyway,I didn't see you there and a lot of magazines are kind of premised on that. It's like the internet has been, you know, was never a good place for luxury advertising.

I think the fact that Airmail was able to attract the, the quality of advertiser that it has is just a testament to how the, how digital media is just simply wholly inadequate for a lot of these, advertisers. They still love

print. 

[00:44:02] AB: Kind so I, that's what I thought. But, 'cause I have a bunch of these like limited run magazines and I'm like, oh, it's so cool that LVMH is in here. But then I talked to somebody and I guess some of these budgets are actually not coming from the agency, so it's not real advertising dollars. It's more's coming from like activation pockets.

And so, sure. For air mail, they have real agency relationships with LVMH, but like I have a bunch of these 5,000, 10,000 sub. Magazines and I was like, oh my God, it's crazy. They can get LVMH in it, but it's not, it's not real LVMH money,

[00:44:35] Brian: Explain that more.

[00:44:37] AB: the weight of it. So maybe LVMH gave them 10 or 30, like 20 to $30,000. It came from the actual, basically someone at the brand used their credit card to buy the ad, and that's not, that's not sustainable. That's like not, the weight of that is not, you're not getting. A million dollars from LVMH to do a full year's run of ads and activations and things like that.

And so, I don't know, I think, but I still believe that some of these are viable. but it's definitely changed my perspective.

[00:45:03] Alex: Can I, can I Is a silly question. Is Airmail just a website and a newsletter? Like just, it's a pure text product.

[00:45:11] Brian: They have. They have, they have these little stores too. They have a very store in the village.

[00:45:16] Troy: They 

[00:45:16] Alex: Oh, 

[00:45:17] Troy: a podcast. I'm sure

[00:45:18] Alex: they don't, they don't seem to have, it feels like.

[00:45:21] Brian: They do commerce.

[00:45:22] Alex: feels, it feels really anachronistic today to just have something that doesn't have a rich media product, like a video or a podcast attack. I mean, I listen to puck's stuff all the time. I've never read any of this stuff. And it feels like we, we talked about it, but we talked about it last time that like, if you're not a, a multimedia multi-platform media product, it's kind of a hard sell these days.

You

[00:45:46] Brian: Well, it was created by magazine people. It was created by magazine

[00:45:49] Alex: I get it. I get it. And I'm yeah, sure. I mean, you know, but I would, is this, is this like telegraph people trying to launch the new mobile phone service? I, I don't know, like it, like I get it. It was created by magazine people, but so were all the other ones that they all seem to have like 

[00:46:04] Brian: I get 


[00:46:05] TBPN
---

[00:46:05] Troy: You know, there's a bigger, there's a bigger context on this that I think he was, was pointing at, and I think actually that the. TBPN Tech Brothers podcast network points too. And it's the story in media that

[00:46:20] Brian: they've tried to rebrand that by the way. They claim now it's technology Business Programming Network, but you're correct.

[00:46:27] Troy: I'm still gonna call it Tech Bros. But you know, it's the line in many of these businesses between kind of hype and brand and real audience service and audience delivery and stickiness and addiction with a core group of people that need you, that value, that you, that do it at scale, right?

And so people, you know, we're sending around notes saying like, how did TVP or TBPN raise at what they raised? And truth is,

[00:46:58] Brian: They didn't raise, they didn't raise. Wait a second. I gotta be the fact guy. They didn't raise?

[00:47:02] Troy: or they were looking to raise money, or they did raise money. I think they did.

[00:47:05] Brian: they got the, they got Zuckerberg on yesterday.

[00:47:08] Troy: Let me, let me finish this story and then, but first find out, do my, do the fact check.

[00:47:12] Brian: I know, I

[00:47:13] Troy: You would know, 

[00:47:14] Brian: it's up here. 

[00:47:15] AB: Yeah, I don't know if they, I mean, 

the 

good 

thing 

[00:47:17] Brian: Why does no one 

[00:47:17] AB: think they need to, I don't think they need to raise money. I don't know. I 

can a, 

I 

[00:47:21] Brian: I promise you they have not raised money.

[00:47:23] AB: I'll ask 

the 

[00:47:24] Alex: You know. I have a, before I have a hard stop, before I head off, I think that they should rebrand

TBPN. They should rebrand TBPN to the, to the Tech Bosses Puppets Network. I mean,

[00:47:37] Brian: Wow. Well this is a form of 

state media. 

[00:47:40] Troy: all right. They didn't raise money. Let's say they didn't. 

but the, the notion is that you have media that is, that people wanna be associated with. That's exciting. Not because of the readership it delivers, but because it represents something in the cultural world.

what they announced at, at Tech Brothers was that they had reached, I don't know, $10 million in revenue and hired a president, and were looking to grow to 30, so I apologize. and, I, I, I think that

long-term and there's lots of media brands like, for example, brands about enthusiast sports like tennis that no one reads about, but they can do an activation, you know, around the US Open.

And those are brands and marketing entities that help. You know, essentially, you know, bring, bring advertisers closer to a game that, like a, a game event, subculture, whatever that they want to be associated with. And then on the other side, lasting media value typically comes from companies that have committed, readers that are subscribers or something close to subscribers.

And you're really, you know, super server, super server vertical. And I think there's a big difference. And I think in the case of most of these souvenir magazines, people are in fact buying advertising. So, you know, buying advertising with a credit card, it's just a kind of short-term vanity placement that gives them, you know, cultural proximity and that's all

[00:49:06] Brian: Yeah. Alex,

[00:49:07] Alex: I gotta bounce

peace. 

[00:49:09] Troy: but.

[00:49:09] AB: brought, 

should 

can we,

talk about one one thing because I, so I think that there's this belief about being across these different formats, like video on Spotify, video on YouTube, e even though they all are video or audio or things like that.

Each of these platforms have different audiences. And so like the TBPN guys, they have their main X feed and then they're on YouTube and all these other places, and it's not. Like the same skills to be good on X are different than YouTube and also the ad sales are different. And so I think that's one of the things as these companies get bigger, they're gonna have to get specific sellers for the different types of content. and a lot of these, why are you shaking your 

[00:49:49] Brian: No, that's not true, I don't think because it's not, what people are buying is not reach. I've been on some of these TV VPN Live streams. There's like 13 people with me. Seriously. I'm being literal, like the clips get shared and they, they, they have these little teeny logos. You can't

see what they're

buying is totally different. 

[00:50:08] AB: no, no, no, but I'm, I'm not pretend we're not talking about the show. I'm just saying this idea that something that has a really good audio podcast, that there's. Audio ad sellers that are specific to selling audio ads, those same ad sellers cannot sell social, cannot sell video. And so my point is, some of these companies get bigger.

One of the things you're gonna see is them build out a much broader, even. Even the big media 

companies 

today 

[00:50:32] Troy: I mean, it's been the story in media for a long time, right? You do. As you transition into new channels, you often need the kind of mercenaries to go in and develop them on the sales front. That's so important. I think that what T-V-P-N-T-V-P-N needs to establish is that they actually have, other than being sort of good looking guys that hang out with Emily Sonenberg,

[00:50:52] Brian: one's really tall.

[00:50:53] Troy: they, they, they need to establish that their media actually is, has utility.

[00:50:59] Brian: Yeah. No, they, they've, they've achieved the sort of breakthrough of getting the profiles, et cetera, getting the mind share sitting down with Zuckerberg, et cetera. Now it's just actually adding real audience at the end of the day.

[00:51:15] Troy: Repeatable audience.

[00:51:16] Brian: Yeah. I 

[00:51:17] AB: But the po, but you're missing the point of the show. But let me go back. The reason I was making the point is if you say there's a really good podcast and you're like, why don't they have video? Why don't they have these other things? The only way a media company is sustainable is when you attach ad revenue to whatever format is.

And so my point is, if you have like a really strong audio audience, you can't just go, oh, let's turn on video and we're gonna build sell ads in two seconds. And so as you see some of these new companies scale, I think what you're gonna see more and more is like they need to actually add. The scale sales capability to sell those new formats.

And that's something that not everybody, everyone knows that they have to sell advertising, but it's not necessarily understood at the level. 'cause like you can't just turn on a YouTube channel and pump out premium YouTube content unless you've raised a lot of money and that usually doesn't end well.

And so that's just the, the point I'm making on TPPN. The point is they don't, they don't need anybody to watch the three hours. The three hours is very simple. They're trying to capture the news that happens that day. So it's like trolling, right? Not trolling, like internet trolling, but trolling, like phishing.

So say something, a news story pops up, you get a, the VC on that did the deal. You do the interview and you clip it up. So the three hour show, I don't think, I don't, I don't know their specific goal around that, but. You never need anyone to watch that. You need people to watch the clips. And so that's the value of the three hour format is to capture that without commercial breaks.

'cause you, if you're on tv, everything is bounded by, oh, we gotta, we gotta move to the next segment. They don't have to do that. They don't give a fuck. Right? They just can keep going and keep talking to people. And so the value is the clips. and it, they have to figure out how it's gonna live on other platforms.

[00:52:52] Brian: Yeah. All right. Do we have a good product?

​


[00:52:56] Good Product
---

[00:52:56] Troy: I do have one. Maybe I'll start with a question.

Brian, do you have a favorite cover?

Not, not a magazine cover, like a song, a cover, so that someone covered a, a song that you, that you loved,

[00:53:09] Brian: Oh, I 

[00:53:10] Troy: a great job. Something that in your mind defines the, you know, the perfect cover?

[00:53:15] Brian: I don't have one.

[00:53:16] Troy: No, maybe, maybe,

[00:53:19] Brian: Give me an

[00:53:19] AB: What's a cover of what?

[00:53:21] Troy: like a, a cover of a song.

[00:53:23] Brian: You mean like where the cover is better than the

original? 

[00:53:26] AB: the Lana Del Rey, 

this she'd sing that 

sublime original? Precisely. 

Yeah, the Lana Del Rey song, summertime.

[00:53:32] Troy: Okay.

[00:53:33] Brian: Molly? Miley Cyrus does a lot of good covers.

[00:53:36] Troy: Well, this week I stumbled onto two albums of covers and I thought it was, you know. Enough of a kind of two data points that it was worth highlighting. One of them is amazing. It's only five songs and it's iron and Wine together with this guy Ben Bridwell, who's the singer of a band called, band of Horses.

And there's five songs on this album that just came out and they're all covers and like the song, I still haven't found what I'm looking for from U2. Like I don't care about that song, but the cover that these guys make is brilliant. It's brilliant. So good. They also cover this song by Kendrick Lamar called Luther that he sort of famously this summer, I think it's from this summer, he sampled Luther Vandross and so they cover Luther and then they of course cover the great song more than This by Brian Ferry.

that, that. Together. This is a, a great album. And then someone texted me and said, you should listen to this other sort of jazz album by pianist and, and composer, a guy named Brad Meau. Meau. Meau Meau. Anyway, the album's called Ride Into the Sun and it's jazz covers of Elliot Smith songs. And maybe I'm getting a little bit too kind of music nerdy here for you, for you guys, but Elliot Smith was a, a, a brilliant kind of pop, like soulful pop singer who killed himself.

And, you know, he's a, you know, just like an important figure in kind of like, you know, indie music, I suppose. anyway, this guy, covers his songs and, you know, from the perspective of the jazz pianist, and it's an, it's kind of an amazing album. And it's called, It's called Ride Into the Sun.

So those two albums, the one from Iron and Wine and Ben Bridwell and Ride Into the Sun by Brad Metow.

[00:55:29] Brian: So what makes a good cover? Because I think a lot of covers can be, you know, like if you go to Europe, I know they must have different music rights because you are, you're always hearing like weird music covers, and it's offensive. but what do you think makes a good cover? Is it taking it into a different musical genre entirely?

[00:55:45] Troy: Yeah, I mean, you know, you love them because you know, the song and the appeal is, is is instant, but the, it has to transform it into something new. That works. That's it. and, and I think mostly it needs to be better than the original. It has to do something better or significantly different than the original.

So you get the appeal of familiarity, and then you get something that's like, wow, this is a great version of this original thing that was probably already great or overlooked or whatever. And, and in, in this case, you've got like doing like a a, a kind of classic song, like more than this from Roxy Music.

And then you have doing Luther, which is a contemporary rap hit. And then you've got like, you know, the U2 song. it's, it's a great, great

[00:56:31] Brian: you think it's, but it's a lesser art form.

[00:56:34] Troy: no, I don't, I mean obviously it is a lesser art form,

but it's sort of like when someone can elevate it, it, it, you know, it is

what it's. 

[00:56:42] AB: So there's actually a really interesting company. There's a couple TV shows that have used covers recently and basically bumped that song. There's, they bumped the listening of a, of a song from the seventies or eighties or sixties. And so there's a company that's contracting with musicians where each week they cover, they basically, they give the musicians that one song to go and do different versions of, and they use technology and AI tools to do the production faster, and their goal is to then go sell it in to different.

Places that could use that IP to then boost. Because what they're doing is they're realizing, okay, everyone has music libraries, the value goes down over time. There could be ways 

if 

[00:57:22] Troy: Boost, they're boosting the value of the

catalog. 

[00:57:24] AB: Yeah. And they're using this like network of musician. 'cause there's so many well-trained musicians that never get famous and that just sort of either play it as a hobby or keep doing it, but not at a level where they can make a lot of money.

So they have like a farm of. Talent. They tell them to do the song. Everyone does like 10, you know, a bunch of different versions. They pick five and then they go try to pitch that into different formats. 

So. 

[00:57:47] Brian: is what I like about ab, you know, no prep. Troy brings out some covers, like good product, and he takes it directly into a private equity

angle. It's just, it's 

beau. It's a 

[00:57:58] AB: thing. 

I have another, so I actually went down the rabbit hole last week about on this. So, 'cause on Spotify, they actually do a good job of connecting you to these covers and remixes, but only for certain musicians and songs. So I researched it and basically the musician can control if Spotify's allowed to show you the same song by other people.

Like some, 'cause I was, if there's a song that you like a lot, you like to listen to other versions of it. And some musicians, I was like, why can I find all the remixes and why for some that I can't? And it's basically a setting at the artist level that they can turn it on and off. So, 'cause Spotify does a really good job of connecting you, but okay, I'll give you my good 

product. This is

like, so being on the airplane, you know when you plug in your plugin, it always falls out. And so I asked chat, GBT, I'm like, how do I make the plug? Stop falling out and check. GBT made a really good point that all the plugs are also European plugs. And so I got, I got the, I got a, this anchor thing, but it's nice 'cause it has USB on the top and I finally for once, had power on the plane. 

[00:59:01] Brian: know that thing 

always falls out. 

[00:59:03] AB: Yeah. And then I also, yesterday I did the private 

suite 

[00:59:06] Brian: But do you know there's, do you know, I'm sorry. Do we, do, you know, also know this, this trick of this, this, I forget what it's called, but you plug it into the, the jack, the, the headphones Jack, like who gets the headphones thing, but then you can just connect your AirPods to them.

[00:59:19] AB: Oh yeah, I have that. Yeah.

[00:59:20] Brian: Oh, you, of course you 

have though. 

[00:59:22] AB: Yeah, 

I had that a couple years ago. So the last second, my 

second 

[00:59:25] Brian: I just found 

out about it. 

[00:59:27] AB: Yeah.

[00:59:27] Brian: It's like 

[00:59:28] AB: You're the guy that, you're the guy that takes those free 

ones 

that you 

[00:59:31] Brian: No, I don't, I don't do 

it. I read a 

book, 

[00:59:35] AB: So yesterday I did this thing that was like super cool called, it's called pri. It's, they changed it from private suite to just PS and it's at LAX.

So it's on the other side of the terminal. And you just like pull up, they take your car and then they have like a lounge and then when your flight's ready that you just drive in the car to the airplane. So it's like the simplest way. 'cause my flight was 

at. 

Six in the 

[00:59:57] Brian: flying Private. 

[00:59:59] AB: kind of, but my flight was so early in the morning, I had to get there at like four 30. it was nice. And you have your own TSA, there's like three TSA agents for you, and so you get to go through security in two seconds and you go to the 

plane 

[01:00:11] Brian: What's that? Like three K, like each

way. 

[01:00:13] AB: It's, it's online. It's I a thousand dollars.

[01:00:16] Brian: Oh really? Hmm.

[01:00:16] AB: I mean, I couldn't miss this flight, so I, I, and I didn't wanna wake up at like three o'clock in the morning, so. 

[01:00:23] Brian: All right, 

great. 

We gotta get an affiliate code for

this. 

[01:00:26] Troy: hope someone's checking your, your expenses j.

[01:00:29] AB: Not 

[01:00:30] Brian: I thought he wore. Yeah. Keep racking 'em up. 


[01:00:33] Outro
---

[01:00:33] Troy: That's it for this episode of people versus algorithms where each week we uncover patterns shaping media culture and technology. Big thanks as always to our producer, Vanja Arsenov. She always makes us a little clearer and more understandable and we appreciate her very, very much. If you're enjoying these conversations, we'd love for you to leave us a review.

It helps us get the word out and keeps our community growing. Remember, you can find People vs. Algorithms on Apple Podcasts, on Spotify, and now on YouTube. Thanks for listening and we'll see you again next week.

[01:01:08] Brian: let's leave it there. This is good. Appreciate it. 

