PvA S3E130 P1
===


[00:00:00] Open
---

​

[00:00:01] Brian: Welcome guys. How are you? 

[00:00:02] Troy: We're good. I'm good. I don't know how Alex is. I'm good. 

[00:00:05] Alex: I'm great. I'm in Palm Springs, not Palm Springs. I'm in the desert. No, I'm in 29. Palms.

[00:00:10] Troy: Is that that kind of little hotel thing

called 29 Palms? 

[00:00:14] Alex: There's more than one

hotel. 

[00:00:15] Troy: That's a fun spot. I like it there. 

[00:00:17] Alex: It's very nice. I like the desert. It's peaceful. 

[00:00:20] Brian: We got a lot to get, get to today. So I wanna

get

[00:00:23] Troy: got a lot on the docket.

[00:00:25] Brian: vacation travel

log has been fascinating. Maybe we cut it out. Maybe we leave it in.

​


[00:00:52] Welcome
---

[00:00:52] Brian: All right, let's get started. Welcome to People versus Algorithms. I'm Brian Morrissey. Joined as always by Troy Young and Alex Schleifer. we are gonna have

an, an, anonymous banker is coming on later 

I'd like them to discuss, golf media because banking, golf seems like it makes a lot of sense. And I think golf is actually really interesting. But we want to get started 


[00:01:15] Hyperpundits
---

[00:01:15] Brian: a little bit of a carryover from last week, although we got some negative feedbacks and I'll, I'll share that in a little bit.

But one of the things I think I got wrong about the decentralization of media was this assumption, that I had that in a world flooded with content, expertise would naturally rise in value. And the idea was like, there's more noise. So the signal will emerge. It will be more valuable than ever. And there's definitely examples of this, but I think what it's led to is a creation of what Alex Expertly branded and Troy tried to rip off as the hyper pundits.

And I'm gonna do my best of, of sort of framing this, but to me. I think it's a flattening of hierarchy and punditry works better than say, like news reporting in this kind of environment. First of all, it's scalable, it's flexible, and it's cheap. The margins are great on punditry. Kara Swisher probably makes orders of magnitude more doing hyper punditry than she did when she was running, a news operation at Recode.

Same with Scott Galloway. I mean, I give this guy a lot of credit. I remember watching his videos when he was doing it L two, that luxury consultancy, and I was like, why is this ball guy doing these videos? People don't wanna look at that. And he just put in the 10,000

hours, became really good at it, and then didn't stay in his

lane.

I mean, he's now got like Prof chi markets. He like holds court on politics. He's, he's gonna reinvent masculinity. 

[00:02:39] Alex: he's

telling The young men how how to

[00:02:41] Troy: Brian, as a sign of

the Times, I kind of f found this staggering and maybe we can answer your question about. Whether you were wrong or not around expertise, 'cause I don't think you're wrong, but Scott interviewed the prime minister of Canada on his prof, G pod yesterday.

[00:02:59] Brian: Yeah, 

[00:03:00] Troy: I just think that's

like a kind of important sign of where we're at. 

[00:03:06] Brian: well, Jason Cals had to buy all these

suits because, you know, they're like interviewing like cabinet secretaries and hanging out

at the White House, although it seems like when they go to the

White House, Jason, Jason doesn't get invited. but this is, you know, part and parcel of this world. 

[00:03:19] Alex: Jason, seems like a guy that doesn't get invited to parties. 

[00:03:25] Brian: I'm not gonna comment on that. But, you know, just a couple weeks ago we had, you know, Nick Denton on and he was like a short seller. I kept trying to ask him about media and he kept wanting, wanting to like, go over to like the Chinese battery production statistics and whatnot.and that's just, that's just the way of the world these days.

And to me. This is the way I look at it, and then I want to get into the conversation. This is just another market that has just been democratized and it's the marketplace of ideas has become this insane, bizarre, and that was because the supply was always artificially constricted. Now it's always

one of those, be careful what you wish for, but to me, the expert

class in quotes, they're gonna just need to compete with these information entrepreneurs.

Like there's no putting the genie back in the

bottle. So like whining about the fact that venture capitalists, you know, are holding forth on Ukraine and all the rest of it isn't really gonna do much. I mean, the experts have to get better at what, the information entrepreneurs are running laps around them at.

And that's mostly in presentation and format and being able to mix it up and look, infotainment has always done better than like, quote unquote hard news. So I don't think this is anything particularly new. So I wanna gi I wanna give it first to, to you Alex, since you coined the term hyperpundit I think there's some controversy about that, but I think you

[00:04:50] Troy: There's no controversy about that. We have the rec, we have the receipts. I think actually the AI invented it and you appropriated it. 

[00:04:58] Alex: No, I mean, that's the risk though. Like, you go out and you start using my term without telling who it is, and 

[00:05:03] Troy: I didn't do it. 

[00:05:04] Alex: then you ask AI and, 

and they

[00:05:06] Brian: We're, we're getting into the decline of IP next, so, so

we can 

[00:05:09] Alex: So, so, but first, Brian, what was the, you said we had, we had some blow

[00:05:13] Brian: Oh, well, the negative feedback was,

you know, because nobody stays in their lanes. And so like, but to me, like we, obviously this is,

is media and tech and culture, so that's very broad and, and you can't avoid the the overall environment, otherwise you're just gonna be myopic. And so I think last week we, we had a,

a very, I, I thought it was an enjoyable discussion, about expertise. and Troy had his, I, it should be like a viral, would it be a screed? Troy? Troy?

what was it like about Jamma pate? I think it was, it's scree. anyway, there was some politics in there, but I didn't think it was too heavy Politics. But, I got an email, from a listener. I'll keep, I'll keep them, anonymous.

And, this is what it said, Brian, the PVA pod is just a very bad political show between Alex and his Trump slash Elon Derangement syndrome and Troy's embrace of the clearly impaired tale of the wr. You have all

lost the PVA plot. The show

was great. Using the past tense there is tough. the other, this person, this correspondent did say that they're happy that, my other

podcast seems insulated for now.

that was I guess, a bit of a threat and they urged

go back and ask why PVA exists. and I, bet you'll find there isn't much of a reason if you break down the last six months of shows. So, there's that, dunno if I totally agree on, on all of that, but I do think that that is just a, a, a sign of the times.

I mean, you can't, to me, I'm, I like this show because we can go into a lot of different areas.

[00:06:51] Troy: Comments. 

[00:06:52] Brian: I mean, you got compared to Te Taylor, what is it that you're, Taylor Uh, it's, this is offensive to both you and Taylor.

[00:06:57] Troy: it's more to me, it's an absurd note, but,no, we appreciate the feedback, but I, I don't likening me to Taylor Loren's. I mean, Alex does have Elon Derangement syndrome, so I think that's 

[00:07:10] Alex: Uh, I mean, it's true and I have no, no reason for it. It's absolutely fine. He's fine, he's

fine. He guys, 

every, 

[00:07:19] Troy: Alex, well, I didn't mean to trigger you, Alex. We're we're, let's focus on the

question.

[00:07:24] Alex: not, I'm not,

triggered. I'm fine. He's fine.

[00:07:27] Troy: Yeah, he's fine.

[00:07:29] Alex: He's, he's fine, right? Like, we all like

him. He's fine. 

I 

[00:07:33] Brian: this is a symptom. 

[00:07:34] Alex: You know

what, the funny

[00:07:34] Troy: No, no. So this is happening again. It's happening. 

[00:07:37] Alex: Hang on, hang on. The funny thing, the, the, the irony, I just wanna point out the irony of being of someone telling you to stay in your lane when you're complaining about Elon Sting in his

lane. Like, you know when he was done building rockets,

he decided to re reformat the government. So like, yeah, we all have

opinions, man.

I don't know who this is.

[00:07:56] Brian: But I think that is the, a core of this is we do all have opinions and we got our

like hot takes and whatnot, but I think that gets at the heart of, of,

what becomes hyper punditry. and I think it is like an enduring feature of the information space. So unpack it for us. Alex, this is your term. This is

trademarked.

[00:08:17] Alex: yeah, unpack it. I don't know. I, I, this podcast, you know, we say it's about the intersection or the

patterns in media, technology and culture. so we're gonna talk about media, technology and culture. and unfortunately or

fortunately, these are very broad topics. It's a very kind of wide circles that form this really broad Venn diagram.

and I wish we could have, you know, I wish I was part of more like of a

focused tech PO podcast. I like talking about this stuff, but unfortunately 

[00:08:47] Brian: no

no offense

taken. 

[00:08:49] Alex: No, I mean, I, I, it is mostly, it's mostly because that's what I know most about and I appreciate that. I don't know much about a lot of the other topics, but what happens is, things are constantly brought into the, the, the fray.

Like it's impor possible to talk about culture and media without, slipping into politics. It's very hard to keep your opinion away from, from your takes. 

but I don't want to

kind of dwell too much on that email. I kind of regret asking you to read it actually, but it's, yeah, we, feedback is, always welcome.

but, you know, none always agreed to,

I think the challenge for me with those, those new types of pundits is that there is no, there are no real stakes. because you don't really have to be Right. Right. I think, a lot of the, the tech journalists that I used to read, and even Kara Swisher used to have takes and they were playing within their field, and therefore that was their currency, that they would

exist within tech and the quality of their takes in tech would build up the equity that they had in that market.

But right now, everybody has

a kind of be, is able to bring, to be brought in, in,

and and there's deliver

so much content. It's kind of hard to see.

To track what bullshit Scott Galloway might have said, you know, he might say 80% of stuff that, that sounds

correct, and then it gets all

chopped up and he has opinions about

everything. So it's hard to, it's hard to grade those

people. I think that's part of that challenge for me. and and when it's, whether it's Chamath or one of, or Scott or, or any one of

these guys, everybody's got opinion

about everything. And that's a part of that is because, I mean, we're, we're kind of in the middle of it because culture, technology, and media has all blended together.

Like, you know, the, the business of media, everybody participates in it. we're seeing kind of these, you know, a hundred year old

brands, that are you know, you

competing against kind of dudes in

their bedrooms. everybody has access to technology. Everybody has opinions and it's

be, it's, and it's made this market where the only

thing that you really need is. Some form of measure of

success. So it could be, you know, oh, this guy's got 16 million Twitter followers. Scott Galloway and Chamath are both rich guys. Like the amount of the the pipeline from rich guy to

influencer is huge because rich guys immediately

get more attention immediately the, their words come out truer because

they say, well, This

person's rich. The amount of times that I hear that, well, you know, he is a billionaire, you know, he must know. Right? 

[00:11:18] Brian: Well, maybe

that's the new credential. You don't 

[00:11:20] Alex: it's the new credential. 

yeah 

[00:11:22] Brian: the PhD 

[00:11:23] Troy: let's deconstruct it in maybe a bit different way, talking about why, you know, trying to

understand why. And the first is, Brian. I think that if you're gonna read about something, expertise does really matter, right? Expertise in, you know, articulating a position through, well-crafted argument in a, you know, a written format.

So I think that, you know,

faced with a lot of options, you know, in, in what you consume from, you know, people putting, you know, text-based content primarily out into the internet, you're gonna go to where you find substance and expertise. I think that once you move to, you know, audio and video, it's a very different equation.

And, that's why comedians do so well here, because your ability to engage in banter back and forth to, you know, juggle both sides,of a position without maybe the depth substance, you know, bonafides, whatever becomes, you know, the thing that wins in the medium. And then as you know, institutionalized media starts to disintegrate.

Where do people that are important? Like this is imp Like, it, it, it's pre pretty interesting, right? Like. Where does Carney, the prime minister of like, you know, a big country, go to be heard in America and he is gonna go to where the people are and you know, so is Scott Galloway a credible interviewer? I think he can do an okay job in that forum.

Does he have, you know, the structure and, and, and, and, and all of the things that we would expect in institutional media to prepare for that discussion and, you know, to maybe intersect it with, you know, experts or, you know, provide the right kind of form. Maybe it's not perfect, but it's still a place for discussion.

And we're seeing this kind of emergence of the, this kind of public commons where people kind of talk it out. And so then we see, and we know that the first and most important thing is, as you said at this kind of in infotainment equation, that's why you see the emergence of debate because debate is, is is something that.

Creates, you know, tension and throws the audience into the frame, because now I can take a side, I can participate, but also, you know, we're getting this other sort of slightly performative thing where Ezra Kline goes on the All In podcast, right? Where Steve Bannon is invited onto the Newsom podcast

[00:14:02] Brian: it's the man in the arena.

[00:14:04] Troy: yeah, it's, and is it a display of courage from Ezra?

Is it a sort of, is it, is it, is it, is it his social obligation that he feels he needs to defend the virtues of liberal, you know, thinking inside of the lion's den? You know, I, I, I'm not quite sure what the, is he promoting the book? I think sort of all of the above, right? And, but, but really what's happening is podcasting has, in, in my mind it's sort of like if, if text.

Democratic publishing of, you know, upended media, like, like, you know, legacy media. Podcasting is building on that, right? Like now, all of the people that are in my podcast feed, I mean, some of them may be monetized by established media like Vox, but they're all independence. Like no one listens to, I mean, maybe you listen to like Morning Update from NPR, but you're not listening to like CBS podcasts, you're not listening to Fox Podcasts, you're listening to independants You know, the structure's completely broken down and therefore the people that win from an audience perspective,are the ones that have, you know, manufactured a product that that travels. And so that, that's what's

[00:15:22] Brian: Yeah, mean, it's kind of like the packaging is almost more important than the quote, what used to be the substance of the product. Right? Which is, to me, indicative of where we are just overall, right? Like the tariffs have brought very clear that most of our companies in America don't make anything.

They're brands. And they, they might design it or something. They might send the CAD design over to, to the supply chain in China. I dunno if you've seen all these TikTok videos from the OEM manufacturers, which by the way has been a great advertisement for those who want to ban TikTok. 'cause it's very clear what the Chinese government could do with TikTok, for instance, to get, their viewpoints in front of, the American people.

but they've all been basically, you know, pulling back the curtain on the fact that none of these. Quote unquote, luxury brands make anything really. I mean, they might do a little bit of final stitching in Italy, but it's all done in, in China. And you know, they got really mad, I think for a good reason when, JD Vance called them peasants.

I've never been to China. Everything I see from there, they're not peasants. They've got some, I saw some drone delivery. They, somebody got a cheeseburger delivered by drone. anyway, I, I think that that is part of all of this in that the packaging in some ways becomes more important in the substance.

And I think when you're talking about this, when you talk about infotainment, the, the being able to package an argument and being entertaining and being compelling is more important than being credentialed

[00:16:57] Alex: Yeah. I mean, which is why I kind of think Troy Troy's point, and we had another email from someone who, who mentioned that, I mean, Troy's point last week was that, you know, sometimes he wants to hear from the economist or, or from an economist or a scientist about a scientific topic. But I think pundits were never that.

And if they were economists and, and scientists, they might have not been the best one, but they were definitely the most entertaining. Right. and it is, it is entirely, it is entirely entertainment. But the, the, the, the challenge I have, and I wonder if it's like, do you think it's kind of the death of.

You know, we, we've talked about this before there's the death of the written word and the fact that even that term podcast is not the right, it's not the right media format. Those are like just little shows they exist on, you know, they're distributed on podcasts, they exist on YouTube, et cetera. And, and because of the format, because of the long form format, there's a lot less scrutiny on what's being said.

Like, I know that if we had to record a 20 minute podcast that then had to be transcribed into something readable, I would definitely fail. Right. 

[00:18:01] Brian: you're actually arguing against yourself, who you're, you're the anti-writing person on this

podcast, 

[00:18:06] Alex: I'm 

not the anti-writing

[00:18:09] Brian: I'll 

turn on you.

[00:18:11] Alex: Just go 

ahead. This is what makes good. It's a good infotainment. 

[00:18:15] Brian: I know 

what, 

I know what retails,

[00:18:16] Troy: the, but Brian said I, he's sent calling you illiterate. 

[00:18:19] Alex: Yeah, that's right. 

[00:18:20] Brian: I didn't go that far, although that might work.

[00:18:24] Alex: Yeah, 

[00:18:25] Brian: No, but you're anti writing. 'cause to me, like writing, the reason that Jeff Bezos has this thing about writing out everything in a memo is because you can't hide. You when you have like shitty logic, you cannot hide it in, in writing if, if someone knows how to truly do critical reading.

Whereas you can do all kinds of performative hand waving stuff,verbally and particularly when, when, in person too. I mean, like I always, there's people who were always great at meetings, right? And like, then you started unpacking. You're like, oh, that's just like charisma and confidence. There's like literally no substance here.

We've all had that experience. I think

[00:19:01] Troy: Yeah, I just was sort of breaking down. Maybe you guys can help me, like what would've happened before. So, Mark Carney has, a agenda. And so Mark Carney has legions of PR people and, you know, foreign service people that would say you are going, how do we influence this, you know, evil company that's, you know, tanking our economy.

And so Mark Carney has to go somewhere, do something, travel to Washington, get on CNN, you know, I don't know, do a long form interview on 60 minutes or something. And there used to be a structure for that, or maybe it was less important before because we didn't hash these things out in, in public.

And so you, you have basically a new mechanism for someone that has an old fashioned PR objective, like the prime minister of a country wanting to influence. The dialogue in, in, in, in another country. And then you have a whole, a different kind of thing where a whole new kind of legion of entitled, sort of quote unquote first principle thinkers out of Silicon Valley who've succeeded in building a product and accumulating wealth now asserting themselves, which is the big shift that's happened in Washington on the public space, right?

So this is, you know, everyone that's got money and influence from Silicon Valley kind of,marching on Washington. And, and there it's a different thing because you've got a new type of participant in this, kind of information space wanting to influence. Policy and how we think. And that ranges from, you know, people that have been absorbed into, you know, into Washington like Sachs to the guys in the All In Podcast to like, I would argue Palmer Lucky on being interviewed by Rick Rubin and advancing, you know, his new kind of point of view on the failure of the American kind of military industrial complex.

Right. Like the, the, and where would Palmer Lucky have gone before to do that? It didn't exist,

[00:21:17] Brian: I mean, he would get like a Fortune article or

[00:21:20] Troy: right? Massively processed through a machine,

[00:21:23] Alex: I mean, he'd write, he'd need to write a, I mean, here's what it used, used to happen. You'd write a book and then you'd do a press tour and you'd, you'd repeat your talking points, on that press tour. You'd get some media training to make sure that you get all your points across. And, and you'd do that for a month and a half, right?

Isn't that what people would do? So, uh, but, but now, now it can be, I'm gonna drop a tweet, and then I'm gonna go, you know, and I'm, and I'm going on these podcasts. Everybody, everybody wins because I mean, even Ezra Klein, I ping on the All In. That's like, that's, you know, audience capture in a lot of ways.

You know? Oh, we bring an audience that wasn't, that has less of an overlap with ours. And so it grows our audience. Everybody wins and everybody's in on it. Because as a client, Al also wants to do audience capture, you know? and now, I mean, it's, I. You know, our governor here in California has his own podcast, so, so that becomes the deal with him now.

And now I wonder how

[00:22:17] Troy: It really is bizarre. It really, and it got me thinking because I would contrast two types of formats or podcast formats. 'cause I listened to them back to back yesterday in the car. And one was Newsom interviewing Ra Emmanuel Ram Emmanuel.who is a very compelling speaker and may well be the Democratic candidate for president.

And so it was kind of interesting 'cause they're both vying for that, right? But with Newsom, what you get is, I think he was civil to Bannon in some ways engaged them. This is one of the problems on the left where the, they've been effectively de platformed by Trump and they're trying to figure out where they sit alongside, you know, right wing media or right wing, you know, kind of the, the, the right wing influencer class.

But you've got a guy doing a podcast who has an agenda. Newsom has an agenda. So he, he brings that to his podcast as opposed to, Rick Rubin who just comes as a sort of like music kind of geek who doesn't know anything and just asks good questions. He sits and he gives Palmer lucky an immense amount of space, and just tries to find a way to guide the conversation by not really saying anything, not having a point of view, not inserting himself into the debate, but just giving someone a platform with really intelligent prompts, which I would sort of say probably mirrors how he operates in the studio.

I'm not here to make music for you. I'm here to help you make the best music you can make.

[00:23:55] Alex: Yeah, the, the, the problem with that is that there is absolutely no, there are absolutely no boundaries to what's being said. There's no, attention to what's being said. I think Lex Friedman is, is, is also guilty of that playing the, I'm just here to listen. But what you're creating is you're packaging a media product for people, and you, you are authenticating the stuff that's being said just by having it on your podcast because the format is meant to be debate.

Right. The format is not just I'm, you know, this is, this, this, I mean, Troy, you must have done it. It's the fire set format where you go in, it's a friendly crowd, somebody's just prompting you so you can say things, right? So you can kind of frame your argument to the audience and, and by doing that, you're legitimizing whatever content comes out of your mouth because that person on the other side is not there to debate you.

Right? You know, Rick Rubin and Lex Freeman oftentimes just are incredibly passive and just, just reinforce the thing that you're saying. And I think that's, that's a disservice to the audience,

[00:24:57] Brian: But I, you know, who are you to say, honestly, like, I mean, that's just preference. Why, why is one better than the other? I mean, there's, there's plenty of adversarial interviews out there. I mean, there, why can this format, this, this approach not exist alongside and be additive? I think you get different, you, I don't expect Theo Vaughn to be grilling Trump on the intricacies of the tariff policy.

I mean, I'd actually like to see that. but I don't 

[00:25:27] Alex: I, I, 

so here's the thing. I don't disagree with you. The problem is that when there's so much choice, I, and there's, and there's so many ways of getting my message out there, I'm not going to go to the one that gets grilled. I'm not gonna do the 60 minute interview anymore. I'm not gonna go to the thing that's actually going to, you know,

[00:25:47] Troy: Which is why the Ezra thing was cool. Cool. Alex, because like Sacks came at him in Larry Summers, like it was, it had the feeling of a kinda hostile debate club in high school

[00:26:00] Alex: to who won.

[00:26:01] Troy: well.

[00:26:02] Brian: wins. Nobody wins in

[00:26:03] Troy: No one ever wins. It's, it's like, did you enjoy the performance?

[00:26:07] Brian: Yeah, were you entertained? That's what's important. And you know, the, the important thing is to have the clips that your supporters can use to validate their, their viewpoints. That's, that's the, that's the end goal. That's why I don't 

[00:26:23] Alex: do you think that's

valuable? I mean, do you think

[00:26:25] Brian: well, I had a little back and forth with Ben Smith about that.

Like, he just sent me like three words about it. But like, you know, like they, he had on Jubilee Media's, CEO, Jason Lee, and they do a lot of these debate things. They're almost like that, like, do you know Lily Phillips, the like porn stars, like sleeping with a thousand dudes in a day or something.

It's like the stunt thing, like even like porn now has this like element or the spectacle element, 

[00:26:51] Alex: you gotta get, you gotta get picked up by the algorithm. 

[00:26:53] Troy: it never had it before.

[00:26:56] Brian: Well, I don't, I, I don't know. I didn't, I I, I haven't followed, this is outside of my lane, so I'll, I'm gonna defer to you on that one,

[00:27:03] Alex: We found one thing that was outside of Brian's lane.

[00:27:05] Brian: Yeah, exactly. there's just no market for that. I'm smart, smart enough for to know that. But they do a lot of these videos, like Pete Judi, Buttigieg, I don't know how to say his name still.

[00:27:15] Troy: That poor porn star's father. I mean, God, that's horrible. 

[00:27:20] Brian: it's the marketplace. 

[00:27:22] Troy: awful.

[00:27:23] Brian: look, it's a very crowded marketplace. You got o OnlyFans has like exploded that, and so you gotta, again, it's competitive like any of these marketplaces. But Jubilee Media does a lot of this with Pete Buttigieg trying to convince 35, Undecided voters or Charlie Kirk taking on like, I don't know, like a hundred, like angry Gen Z women.

and to me it's, it's spectacle. It's not, and that's fine. Like, and the reality is, like you said, you know, you, you're not gonna have Cheetos for dinner, but like, you can have Cheetos for dinner. Like if you wanna have Cheetos for dinner, nobody's gonna stop you from having Cheetos for dinner. So, you know, ultimately I think that this needs to be hashed out by people, just be choosing to have a more nutritious, information diet.

And I understand that in the marketplace, just like in food, you know, fast food does well because it's convenient, it's cheap, it, it's got a lot of carbs and it's satisfying in the moment. 

[00:28:19] Alex: I don't think we should expect people to go out and choose the best information diet. I think at the very least with food, you have some sort of labeling. I mean, here you don't, it's really hard to understand what is a valid source. I mean, I don't even know, I know that I'm picking off my biases and to think I, you know, I listen to what I want to hear, and I totally get the thing where you go into a debate and you, I mean, it's so funny.

Every time there's one of those left versus right debates, you'll find little clips on YouTube and you say, destiny destroys right wing pundit. And then, you know, the other one is like, Charlie Kirk destroys destiny. It's the same fucking thing. It's the same fucking interview. And, and, and of course, and of course that's the deal.

And I, and, you know, we've, we've talked for a long time on this podcast about the, you know, everything being entertainment and that's what's winning right now. And it's definitely reinforced by the way the algorithms work.and, and what they surface. But I don't know if, if it's really, practical to have a healthy media diet these

days. I don't think mines 

[00:29:16] Brian: think, but, 


[00:29:16] Participatory Media
---

[00:29:17] Brian: but I do think it plays into something that you've astutely mentioned before, which is the participatory nature of media that is ascendant right now. I mean, if you look at, just take like the Minecraft movie, what is it called? A a, a Minecraft movie. it's getting all these kids to go out there having like mini riots in the theater.

Like it's a participatory, experience. I mean, Mr. Beast built like his empire on basically content. That's a game. Taylor Swift concerts or rituals. you know, Fox, did you see this new Fox? it's like a game show slash reality show that there may, I think this is a great idea. They basically locked four people in some sort of upstate asylum, right after the inauguration until recently.

And then they're, they're surfacing them and then they're going to have a game show in which they try to guess which

[00:30:05] Troy: This is a, this is a brilliant, brilliant concept. 

[00:30:08] Brian: Which is fake. 

[00:30:09] Alex: Um,

that I, it's super smart. It also sounds like something made up for a dystopian movie, doesn't it? It's just crazy. It's, I mean, it is amazing though. I gotta give it to them. That sounds

[00:30:21] Troy: Yeah, so really what it is, is an admission that you cannot predict the shit that we're experiencing right now. So we're gonna put people in a box and then expose them to the reality of our times. Just to show you how ridiculous and crazy this

[00:30:35] Brian: I love it. I love this stuff. I mean, I liked even the David Blaine stuff, so like I'm a sucker for this.

[00:30:40] Troy: True.

[00:30:41] Alex: You know, it's like that, that, that Japanese World War II soldier that was discovered, you know, 20 years after the war ended, 

[00:30:48] Brian: so Alex, what is your take? Like why, what is. Participation is the point, right? Like, so how I, to me that's the interesting, it's like how do you design media around participation? Because this is, this is a real challenge for the industrial side of media where all the processes, all the skill sets, all of the rewards were around really a passive one-way experience and this participatory experience.

And you're from the video game world, you know, like it's not one that comes like easily to a lot of people from the traditional media industry.

[00:31:28] Alex: No, it's actually, I mean, it's, it's it across media and art and we talked last week about, you know, I mentioned how supers stardom or, or the, the, the traditional. concept of, of a superstar, kind of like this, like a-list or George Clooney,it's kind of, it's going away. it used to be like everybody kind of were, were, were, and, and with that, a lot of, like, the paparazzi stuff is going away as well.

There were these, celebrities that nobody had access to, right? And you just, you knew them for being famous and you really wanted access to them. So the way to get access was through, you know, either a late night interview or vanity affair cover, or a paparazzi shot. And like that stuff, I feel, is slowly dying because the act of celebrity right now is the act of access, right?

YouTubers start with, you know, Hey guys, you know, they're talking straight to their audience. they're communicating straight to their audience. You know, destiny has these feeds where, you know, chat is just like running while he's having an interview with someone. and, and it's all become, just like this.

Para social access game, where you are, you are, you know, connecting with your audience. You bring your audience along with you, you know, when you go for an interview somewhere else, which is why that whole, exchange works so well. You know, you jump on my podcast and bring some of my audience with you, they jump, you know, and then, and then we do the same, game in, in reverse.

and so having that audience that you carry along with you and communicating with them and managing them through all sorts of ways, right? I think we wanna do more stuff on Substack. We wanna do more stuff between, podcasts and newsletters where we communicate with our, with our users. We definitely have users that have followed us since the beginning that, you know, send us notes, you know, in, in, you know, that, that, that don't feel like this kind of traditional, like, we're making media, we're putting it out there and people are consuming it.

so I, I think that whole thing is changing and I don't know where it's headed, but it's very different. and it also creates this, Content that exists outside of the entertainer or outside of the, the pundit class where if you, like Troy, you talked about those Chamath fan boys, right? Like every one of these guys, Ezra has the same, right?

The All In podcast has the same, you, you'll, you'll go to these, these folks, discord and Reddit, and there's stuff happening around their celebrity and their content all the time by a community all the time. Very active people fighting for them in the trenches, you know, you know, pulling stuff out from another podcast that somebody said about them and making sure that they see the

[00:34:04] Brian: you need a legion, Alex, you're, you're developing a legion. You know Elon is developing his legion and you, and you're developing in your own way, your legion. 

[00:34:12] Alex: that's right?I am I Where, where you 

[00:34:16] Brian: I get notes all the 

[00:34:17] Alex: I'm

not seeing those

[00:34:18] Brian: about you. I th I think for grow, I think for growth, we need to, we need to throw Troy into the all in thunderdome, 

[00:34:24] Alex: I mean, that's what we need to do. 

[00:34:26] Brian: let, let Sax and Chamath maul

him. And,

[00:34:30] Alex: do you think he's, he's gonna let Sachs Red pill him, and then you've always been our sax, Troy.

[00:34:36] Troy: Mm-hmm. 

[00:34:37] Brian: those guys are brutal. The, the debate the debate guys, you don't wanna get involved in with, you know, 

[00:34:42] Alex: I mean, 

sax is very good at what he does. 

[00:34:44] Brian: yeah, he's,

he's debate club. Debate club is in innocent. any thoughts on this story before we move on to IP law And it's discontent.

[00:34:52] Troy: No, I think Alex did a good job. I mean, I, I think once again, we're seeing the cultural importance of a, of a, a generation raised on gaming, and I think that that, that, that visual is really influential to me of like having the chat flow down the side while you're engaged with a headphone on, like in, in the media.

I think that, I think that that for, for a lot of people, the idea of sitting back and reading an article is lost on their generation. It's either coming at you via video or you're participating in it, or you're making it, you know, you know, or you're engaged in some shape or form. And I, I think that it's, it's kind of a requirement for, for the next generation of successful media,

[00:35:43] Brian: This is why I am very, just as an aside, this is why I am very excited for my upcoming online forum, next week, on 

[00:35:51] Troy: you know, you, you end up positioning yourself 

as like a, A BA B2B grandpa, like you should cool. It, it is, it's not cool.

[00:36:00] Brian: What are you talking about? I just, it's very pertinent. You talked about it being participatory. The great thing about the online forum with Marigold about email newsletter personalization is that I've got one pain, it's like destiny. I'm like, destiny on these things, except we're talking about email and open rates and, and so we've got people incoming, we've got a lot of questions.

We weave it in there. It's totally participatory. Otherwise, it's just like a, a video of people watch live. Why would they want that? So you gotta have the participation.let's move 

[00:36:28] Alex: you,

just before, just before

[00:36:31] Brian: Oh, what do you want? The time that it's at? 1:00 PM Eastern 

[00:36:34] Alex: yes, that's what I wanted also. Did you, do you want to, I, I've, I've talked to a few teachers and, you know, my, my wife works in, in schools and 90% of the kids, when you ask them what they want to be, they wanna be a streamer, they want to be a YouTuber. It used to be fucking astronaut. And now that is, you know, and I'm pretty sure it applies across the board.

and so if you're in media and you're lo you're trying to think like, where's the world change? Where, where's the world going? Those changes are profound and we're seeing them and it's not gonna get. I think it's not gonna get any better or, or, or worse depending

[00:37:11] Brian: Right. That's why some of the complaints on this I take with a grain of salt, the pearl clutching because it's, it's sort of boxing your own corner. You're just trying to crowd out competition. I mean, who wants, nobody wants more competition. Let's be real. People don't like change than they don't want competition.

[00:37:27] Alex: Yeah. But that doesn't mean you can't have an, you can't be critical of the quality of the content. Right. And I think, and I think that people like Chamath, for example, are, are, are. You know, the, the, the value per word from somebody coming from Chamath, you know, when he steps outside of his lane, starts dropping pretty fast.

There's some people who can carry over. You know, you know, you, you, you, you, you listen to Alan Toos talking about anything from some, you know, 1813 German industrial strike to, you know, the Chinese economy. And he seems to know everything. but we, we should al we should also remain very critical about, about the, the, the type of punditry that we have because it's becoming more important.

Because I don't think Rick Rubin talking about the military industrial complex is something that we need in this world,

[00:38:18] Brian: Yeah. Although I have my doubts. I have my doubts about Adam Toos. Like I think he's doing an academic parlor trick that's pretty adjacent

to what Chamath Chamath does. No, I think that there's certain people, particularly in academia, that if you give them like eight hours, they can like basically come out and present as knowing everything

about everything, 

[00:38:38] Alex: No, but it's, that's fine. He does his research, but I can't do that. Like, it's like saying, you know, like, you know, Hey, can you come, can you, sure. Can you come back to more and juggle? I can't. But Adam two can, Adam two can, he can juggle, you know, and the next day he'll, he'll, 

