PVA S1E50
===

[00:00:00] Brian: 

[00:00:00] Alex: Well, I gotta say, you both look great and refreshed.

[00:00:03] Brian: I 

don't think I'm 

I had the best summer, did you, what were the 

[00:00:06] Troy: yeah. 

[00:00:07] Brian: Three.

[00:00:07] Troy: Three highlights. 

[00:00:09] Alex: Tons of tennis. Played tons of tennis.

You know, they say that people who play racket sports live longer. Right. it's science.

[00:00:15] Brian: Okay. Uh, I don't understand why that would be specific to racket sports

[00:00:19] Alex: some sort of, some sort of movement that you do when you play racket sports, that that helps some sort of blood flow of shit or whatever. Don't ask me, I don't know what I'm, you know, I'm not a scientist.

[00:00:29] Troy: I'm on a new one, Brian, where I'm doing sprints on the treadmill. 

[00:00:32] Brian: do you have a treadmill?

[00:00:33] Troy: Yes.

[00:00:34] Alex: Uh, that's what I need.

[00:00:35] Troy: We don't use, I'm, maybe it'll, I'll start using it now. It's one of those Peloton ones. It's kind of groovy.

[00:00:40] Brian: Oh my God. You

guys got the Peloton one 

[00:00:42] Troy: 

[00:00:42] Brian: why did you fall for that branding? It's just a treadmill, you realize, right?

[00:00:46] Troy: except it has a big screen and it has all that comes with all the programming and all that stuff.

[00:00:50] Brian: Programming, you know, if you need programming, you're not made for the treadmill. The treadmill is a test of mental fortitude. The best treadmill is facing a wall. You should just look at a wall and think about your soul and what you've done wrong in life.

[00:01:04] Alex: Uh, Brian, it sounds a little bit like, um, I.

[00:01:07] Troy: Like Catholic school, 

[00:01:08] Alex: I suffered. So you 

have to suffer.

[00:01:10] Brian: Have you ever fallen off a treadmill?

[00:01:12] Alex: Yeah.

[00:01:12] Brian: I got spit out the back one time when I was trying to watch a TV in the basement. That's why I just stare at the wall.




[00:01:20] Intro
---

[00:01:41] Brian: All right. Let's talk about assholes. I did a lot of like casual reading, but one of the, the things I was reading was this Wall Street Journal excerpt of your friend Elon Musk, the biography that Walter Isaacson is about to come out with. And I think it's going to ignite a conversation across a few different, vectors, but one of which is, do you have to be an asshole to succeed?

I, I was thinking like when reading this is, the details are different with the, what did you get done this week? And he talked about, meeting with Prag Agarwal, the former c e o who we fired, and tried to take away his severance, which is an asshole move, I believe. And he talked about how he was, he was too nice of a guy.

He was like, yeah, he's a nice guy. He's too nice of a guy. What, what Twitter needs is

[00:02:24] Troy: I, to be clear, I don't think it was severance. I think it was like a $50 million stock allocation, just

[00:02:29] Brian: Yeah, that's severance.

[00:02:31] Troy: yeah. On no planet should that guy have gotten $50 million, but 

[00:02:34] Brian: God, I see whose side you're on. Okay. whatever, I'm just saying that he, he acted in what we will talk about, whether it was an asshole move or whatever. anyway, I think it's, this book is gonna have all kinds of nuggets for the fan boys and it's gonna have all kinds of nuggets for the people who can't stand Elon Musk. And in between, I'm interested in how he actually manages these companies because, in, in reading through the details, it's different, but it reminds me of the eighties and nineties and when I was growing up, I remember, do you remember Al Dunlop? He was chainsaw Al and he came in and he cut 12,000 jobs at Scott Paper in Philadelphia, and he ended up making a hundred million dollars, which at the time was way more .

, because he sold it to Kimberly Clark and he reveled in this reputation. It was at the time that Donald Trump was rising. And Donald Trump, I think, and Elon Musk, there was a great Sam Harris podcast are, one could argue quintessential assholes. And I think

what, 

[00:03:31] Alex: No, I was just saying No, no, no, no. That that Sam Harris podcast is a must listener. We have to absolutely link. It's

[00:03:37] Brian: I, I'm, I'm on a Sam Harris kick. I think. I think the world needs more Sam Harris podcasts and

[00:03:42] Alex: me too. Except he's really, he's really anti having a fireplace in your house and that's the only way we can get rid of excess wood here. So I dunno, we'll have to deal with that another

[00:03:52] Troy: such an, you're such an asshole.


[00:03:54] insert here
---

[00:03:54] Brian: Do you remember when we wrote a profile of you and we called you brusk and you complain to me?

[00:03:58] Troy: Yes.

[00:04:00] Brian: You said it was another way to say asshole.

[00:04:02] Troy: Yeah. But it's taken me a long time. But I'm coming to terms with myself.

[00:04:07] Brian: It's good. We're all in a process of becoming

Okay, so let's, let's, let's start definitionally, Troy, how do you define an asshole?

[00:04:15] Troy: like, I get something that poop comes out of.

[00:04:19] Brian: Come on.

[00:04:21] Troy: I, um, I don't know someone who's mean unnecessarily, who does things that I. Are, rooted in, you could deconstruct all the ways or all the reasons that someone's an asshole. I don't think we have to start at that level, but it's probably someone who, hurts people unnecessarily in pursuit of a goal or out of, just deep narcissism or some type of other insecurity.

And, and so, it just, I think lack of regard for others is probably, how I would think

[00:04:50] Brian: Okay, so it's intent based. Is it? Does it matter with intent?

[00:04:53] Alex: Yeah. I think it's intentional cruelty. Right? Specifically, or lack of regard. I mean, it doesn't have to be full on cruelty. It is intent.

[00:05:00] Brian: Okay. So it's intent based because I think sometimes you, you can like, You have all these euphemisms, hard charging is one. And, and it sort of gives people a pass. I think lately with, with people like Elon Musk, there's this idea that they're quote unquote on the spectrum and that's sort of get out of asshole jail card.

I don't know if that matters or anything, but I guess one of the things that I'm interested in is, is this effective? 'cause I think everyone wants to think that, every company is like, we have a no assholes policy. It's like, oh my God, you and every single other person. but at the same time, and I think Sam Harris points this out, the world is full ofs and that perhaps is why people gravitate to some people who are like Elon Musk and Donald Trump.

[00:05:45] Troy: Is there such a thing as a lovable asshole?

[00:05:47] Brian: I think they're a rogue, I.

[00:05:48] Troy: Hmm.

[00:05:49] Brian: I think a lovable asshole is a rogue

[00:05:51] Alex: I think it depends on the, on the industry, right ? Like definitely, chefs and cooking have have these kind of personas that are these kind of jerks that, you know, yell. But it's all, and kind of

[00:06:02] Brian: The Gordon Ramsey

[00:06:03] Alex: the Gordon Ramsey thing, which he's kind of the lovable asshole.

And so was the guy from like, what was like American Idol or whatever, where people enjoyed his bluntness because I, I think there is a place for being blunt and kind of a jerk when you're trying to elicit some sort of like, energy from a team, right? Like it's kind of the, the drill sergeant type thing.

and I, I do think people enjoy watching that. Maybe they don't enjoy being, people receive it. Sometimes they do. I know that I've had, I. Interactions with people who were maybe, more cutting in their feedback. And I actually, felt it was, engaging and empowering in the end. But I don't know if that makes them assholes.

I think it just makes them, um, brus.


[00:06:44] end
---

[00:06:44] Brian: well played.

[00:06:48] Troy: yeah, I mean, I think more often than not, asshole is a term thrown around by the weak to characterize hard charging leaders that do things that other people can't do in a negative light. or to skewer them in the media as you might have done in the past,Brian, and, their determination and sometimes the kind of inability to suffer mediocrity or fools or whatever gets labeled as asshole behavior or their impatience.

Or maybe they just lack some sort of grace and as a result they're called assholes. I think there are. Leaders that push towards a goal, that rally people, that get people going, that challenge the people that say things like, this is hard or we can't do it, or do you remember what it used to be like?

Those kinds of people that charge it, that can do it without being assholes, but there's a very, very high degree of overlap between people that are characterized by assholes and as assholes and people that get things done

[00:07:49] Brian: Right. Yeah. Yeah. And it's all perception, right? Because I think anyone who's maybe, I mean, I'm just speaking for myself. I've been called an asshole and, and,

[00:07:57] Troy: well. You are an asshole. I mean, I mean in a, you're a great guy, but like you can be an asshole.

[00:08:02] Brian: Okay, that's different. So let's, let's actually unpack that because I think being an asshole is different than acting like an asshole every now and again. Like it's totally different to me. And maybe that's like ex and anyone

who has high expectations is going to at some point in, and again, maybe this's, just making excuses is going to be labeled an asshole by some people.

Now you would call them weak or whatever like that. I wouldn't say that. I just think that it's a normal human dynamic. but then I'm not an asshole, so I wouldn't call them weak.

[00:08:31] Alex: Well, I mean, I think it's, it's all, contextual though, right? I feel like we have this new brand of, you know, I think we've all maybe have been called assholes or have done something that have, might have obs provided feedback that might have been seen as, mean or mean-spirited.

But I think there's this, asshole brand where people are enjoying. The fact that there's someone in power that is often punching down, but it's punching down at a group of people that they don't like. Right. So it's the Trump, the, the Musk thing. I think they're kind of feeding off that thing where Musk is just punching down towards a bunch of people and attacking people that they don't like.

So the asshole brand is like, yeah, they're an asshole, but they're my asshole. Right. And I think they're capitalizing on that. It's like a, level of shamelessness that most of us don't have.

[00:09:14] Brian: But like, I think there's the means to an end argument, right? So let's just stick with Elon Musk, right? He came into a situation that. It seems like there was a lot of change that needed to take place. I mean, even in this article, I think Leslie, Berlin, had talked about how, we were definitely very high empathy, very caring and inclusion and diversity.

Everyone needs to feel safe here. and he,

[00:09:37] Troy: the most ridiculous statement I've ever heard.

[00:09:39] Brian: um,

[00:09:40] Troy: What? This isn't a daycare man. What? What? We're a high empathy organization. What does that mean? Break that down for me.

[00:09:47] Brian: me personally,

[00:09:48] Troy: And either of you.

[00:09:49] Brian: I 

I want to try toss this one to you, Alex. You're high empathy. I just got called an asshole by Troy, so I, I, I have no expertise in this

area.

[00:09:59] Alex: I mean, like, fuck, why can't people just be normal? Man? I was there when that Steve Jobs book came out and a bunch of, people in power started thinking that, oh, that's what's missing from my leadership style, being more of a jerk.

You know, because there's that whole lion where, you know, somebody steps into a room and he just asks loudly, like, has the IQ of this room's gone down? Or is it just me? like shit like that, you know?and people connected his ability to see the future and get things done with being an asshole.

And I think part of it was that he was not afraid to be unpopular, which is what I think great leaders have is like they can make unpopular decisions. but at the same time, on the flip side of thing, it worries me when you tell people, everybody can feel safe here. Sure, yeah. Physical safety, physical and emotional safety, and you're not going to be harassed.

But, that is also can be misconstrued for like, well, my job's safe forever and I will never get negative feedback. And I, I find that that language is so, like, you know, Troy reacted, it doesn't mean anything. It doesn't mean anything. Nobody can latch onto that, 

[00:10:59] Troy: I think it's actually aggressive. I think it's more aholic than how you would characterize someone who maybe hurts some feelings, but, you know, states things in an maybe an honest and very direct way. Sometimes they may make, on the path there may, may something offhanded or joking or whatever, like your, your example.

But just listen, if someone came in and said, we're definitely very high empathy, very caring about inclusion and diversity. Everyone needs to feel safe here. I mean, those are words that I, I think in many cases are as damning as any other. Like, you're not like that. Or it's, it's super, it feels super judgy to me.

yeah. And there's a, but it also feels like they're covering their asses, which is always like,Oh my god, it's so San Francisco bullshit. It's just, it's, it really is nauseating.


[00:11:53] end
---

[00:11:53] Brian: I think what's interesting about this, and the reason I wanted to talk about it was beyond, just to get Alex to talk about Elon Musk again, is that, I feel like pendulum's always 

swing. And the hard charging, like get things done, executive gave way to the safe space, caring, and I think the pandemic really just accelerated a lot of that.

And now we're seeing a shift back in some ways, and you see this across many different areas. I think we're entering into a lot of industries and more with less era in which a lot of this stuff goes out the window by necessity, 

because you have to have high functioning organizations and sometimes in holding people accountable and having high standards, you're gonna have a discussion about what is being quote unquote radical candor in what is being an asshole.

[00:12:38] Alex: this stuff, Brian, is part of that, zero interest phenomenon that you talked about. Where it was, it was really like actually easier to just hire a bunch of people and make everyone feel like, they would never receive any criticism. And actually, you know, what's really hard for managers to do?

Fire people, give people bad feedback. You know, everybody thinks the boss class always wants to,take people out. But I think it's way easier to, to just make everyone happy, right. To be the kind of like the guy from the office. and now what we're seeing is that the pressures are going up into making these companies more profitable, right?

And powering through the economy. And, and a lot of that stuff is flying out the window Because Silicon Valley you know, has put out that brand of these soft spoken, sa safe spaces, what they're doing. A lot of these companies kind of insidious because they're telling their managers, Hey, we're.

we, we really wanna be more, focused on performance and, you know, we're not doing layoffs, but,we, we are changing our culture of performance saying, Hey, we've been telling you to hire a bunch of people and treat them super, like infantalize them, treat them like babies.

But now we're seeing that there's, like, the bottom line is getting hit. So we're gonna have you guys to start acting like bosses and firing people who are not performing. And they're, they're pushing all these decisions down to managers who have not been educated and taught to be, kind of bold in their decision and just, let people go or give critical feedback.

So there's a lot of Turmoil right now happening, in, in the industry. I'm hearing it from everywhere. it's really interesting, you know, you know who's not in trouble? Apple, because they've always been doing that shit, know, they've never just being tough. Apple is a tough company to work at. they, they don't, they don't overhire, they, they're very leadership driven. The executives make all the decisions. It's very 

[00:14:22] Brian: Yeah. Is Google on the other end of the spectrum? Is that their reputation? 

Okay. 

That's what I

[00:14:27] Troy: Yeah, so, so I just wanna add something because, there are leaders that I admire and I get to watch them deliver hard feedback. and things that I've learned late in my career where before I been, I might not have paid enough attention to the way someone felt. I might not have listened to what they were saying carefully enough to really understand where they were coming from or to get, a kinda level of insight that only really intent listening would've brought.

And then to kind of reframe it with sensitivity to how they're feeling and say, I, I understand what you're saying, but I. Here's the situation we're facing, and I know this is your point of view, but what if we did this, or what if we thought about this differently? Or do you appreciate how much, change has to be made for us to get to a goal?

So I think that there's a more mature way of being, forceful that isn't like when I was, I mean, personally when I was younger, I would've just like I would've been more aggressive and, and that aggressiveness would've come from my fear and insecurity. And so I'm finding that I'm, kind of trying to.

flip the world around and look at it from the, the perspective of the other person while still driving towards a goal or being tough, or being kind of uncompromising. And so I think that that journey is the journey of the sort of asshole to more benevolent, but aggressive leader. And that's what I personally would aspire to.

[00:15:59] Brian: I like it Benevolent asshole. 

[00:16:01] Troy: I've, seen it in good leaders. So I think that there is, there is the possibility to be really, really demanding without making people feel bad.

[00:16:09] Alex: just, just, and I think Brian, uh, I mean, you've, not you, yeah. Brian, you've never worked directly with Troy, but, Troy is actually a very good leader and, I've enjoyed. Working with him more than a lot of people because of the fact that he could provide real feedback, which I think is, that being nice and, and not actually providing any value is not great for somebody's career.

And I think Troy was one of the people that pushed me in my career more than anyone. And Troy, I gotta tell you, I have spoken to at least like six or seven people that I've worked with you in the past, and they have all told me the same thing that they felt that working with you has has made them better.

so I do

[00:16:45] Troy: I think there's a, there's at least 10 of them, Alex,

[00:16:47] Alex: I think, I think there's probably 10. but you, you 

[00:16:53] Troy: but I

have also seen you be really hard on the people that you're closest to, Alex.

[00:16:58] Brian: Well, Alex, I'm interested in how you, because I always thought the most sensitive creatures to give feedback to were like designers. Like they're very sensitive. and you always had a, like, I really like what you did here, but, and then just like say it's total crap.

[00:17:13] Troy: Alex isn't really, I don't think he's hard on people like that. I think he's hard on the people. He expects a lot from,

[00:17:18] Brian: Okay. Well, yeah. I hope that's what most

[00:17:20] Troy: like, you're hard on Adrian. Alex,

[00:17:22] Alex: Yeah, Well, you just have to give feedback and the work isn't good. and I have been blunt and it never feels good, but,you know, I always, I always think about it for a while afterwards, but the feedback I've had is that people felt the worst when they felt I was disappointed I'm not gonna be somebody who, who kind of yells out this is shit.

I'll kind of be more despondent and if this is the best we can do, what are we gonna do? Like, that's my least favorite way of acting when I'm more directive with

[00:17:46] Brian: Surrender to 

mediocrity? Is that what

[00:17:48] Alex: yeah, it's just like fully like, disappointed, and so that's, that's kind of like my negative traits when I become despondent.

But actually I'm, I'm a little bit more forceful With my feedback and more directive. I think it's, it's really good. and a lot of people that I've worked with for a long time have received this type of feedback from me, and Troy's, right? Like, the more I expect from people, the, the harsher I will be.

you know, when I joined Airbnb, it was very fast growth, completely new culture for me. You know, I was moving in from the digital media space, you know, hanging out with, with a bunch of journalists and salespeople and the tone at Airbnb definitely softened down.

People were very nice to each other. but still high performance. but we did struggle a little bit with understanding like, people were using the term family I think a little bit too freely. And I wanted to be called a team because you don't fire people from your family usually.

and I think We ended up building a really good culture. But I do think Silicon Valley has built a culture of people where that we're not building the best, most performing people. And I noticed that now as I'm trying to help a lot of startups hire people. it's a bunch of people who've never done anything substantial, really, really critical feedback or fired people who have gone through hard times.

Right. They've joined Facebook when it was doing well, they left Facebook as it was doing well. I think there's a little bit of that missing. 

that doesn't excuse what Elon did at Twitter. Like, I'm not, you know, that's very different. Yeah.

[00:19:09] Brian: But I, I do think, a lot of it does emanate from Silicon Valley and this recent era, pretty much all trends at work or business related have come from Silicon Valley. I feel like there's been a ton of pattern matching when Google started the campus and the Infantilization and all that stuff like this.

I promise you, at the risk of being like an old guy, we did not have snacks in the office. the private equity guys did not give us snacks at, had we, and I brought snacks in to Digiday, I am proud to say, and one of my most negative Glassdoor reviews it was just like horrible experience this person had.

But then the, like pros, they said free snacks, so,

[00:19:50] Alex: Look, I don't wanna see like, throw out the baby with the bath water here. A lot of the innovation around workplace, around the environment, and the workplace, that's Silicon Valley. Invented is great. I think it's nice that people have better working environment, more perks, fuck, we spent a lot of time at work.

It's nice that people feel safe and that women aren't, treated, in ways, that they were like only like,a decade or so ago. I mean, it's not perfect, but it definitely, there was an effort to be done there. But it has turned into this idea that at least there's a concept that there's an infantalizing happening, that people are being treated like babies and that opens up an avenue for people like Musk to come in and say, I'm going to come in and, punch the shit out of these people.

Right. There was like a celebration of him going in and kicking out all of these soft nerds out of Twitter, 

[00:20:40] Troy: No. Is that true though? Is 

it true? Well, no, but I mean, here's the thing. When one calls someone an asshole, or, or rather reframes it as an aggressive manager or someone facing a very difficult, organizational transformation situation, whatever you want to call it.

it's important to get an understanding of the environment, the trade-offs, the nature of the people there, the culture. You have to change how you have, people inside of Twitter were writing things like that and thought they were acceptable.

Right. s so,

[00:21:12] Alex: on. 

[00:21:12] Brian: Writing things like what? 

[00:21:13] Alex: look, I was for completely refactoring how Twitter worked. No, no problem with that. I think it was done with a mean spirit from the day he stepped in the door. That's why I'm saying it was done. The, the spirit of it, the context of it, the execution

[00:21:27] Brian: So wait, you're saying that you wouldn't be against what he did if he just like did a shit sandwich?

[00:21:32] Alex: No, no.

I think he should have walked in and says, this company has been badly run. We've hired way too many people, and we're gonna have to cut this in half now. Lots of people are gonna lose their job. It sucks. I'm sure we're gonna lose a lot of great people, but here's what we gotta do. Right. Instead, you know, he went in and, and acted

[00:21:48] Brian: so it's just stylistic? I mean, I don't know.

[00:21:51] Troy: That's what he is saying. I think 

[00:21:52] Alex: Yeah. Yeah. And why, why it depends on your intent. Like,we've all had to fire people I think at some point. And you could have done this in a way that was empathetic, and I know it sucks. Or you could do this in a way that, like, you come across like you're relishing the fact that you're letting a bunch of people go.

And that I think is just like it's not very nice. I just think that's it.

[00:22:12] Brian: Troy, you said, then we'll move off this. do you have some more sympathy for the, it seems like if I could read in to

[00:22:18] Troy: Well, one of the things I liked about the Isaacson excerpt in the Wall Street Journal is because it's book length and because he spent a lot of time on the inside, you start to see both sides of things. Right. And you start to see, well, how, Musk took 9% and then he labored over it, and then he thought that it could be a payment and communications platform early on.

And then he realized he couldn't make the change through his board seat, through who he saw as an ineffective c e o. And then he stepped up his position and then he felt like he was getting jacked. So in the sort of spirit of a, rich guy warrior, he said, I'm gonna fuck them back and take away their severance.

and so you just start to see the whole story. And one of the biggest challenges in any of the, in this corporate reporting is a lack of nuance around the trade-offs and realities of what the leader is facing.

And, and, and I find that all the time. So I always liked you, Brian and I used to come in and sit on the podcast and talk to you when you knew at Digiday and you're sort of intrepid leader of one of these businesses and you say, well, we're gonna do affiliate.

And you would sort of roll your eyes just because you heard affiliate 50 times that week and it was the innovation du jour that everybody was working on. And you would be entirely dismissive. Well, but, but how are you 

really gonna save this bus? Okay. Right. That's your job. But I think that what happens is The one side that's trying to do whatever you can to save slash build, slash refactor a company, get rid of people, find new people, come up with new ideas, face extreme headwinds. And then on the other side, you have someone that looks at what you're doing and says, oh, that's cute. like, yeah, good luck with that.

and what I'm saying is, is that the truth is more often somewhere in the middle of, really, really hard change agenda. and, we're all sort of imperfect as we navigate those. And, and I just, I really appreciate journalists, and I'm not saying you're not one of these, but that

sees it's not about you, but just sees the complexity in what

has to happen in a situation

[00:24:23] Brian: I, I totally agree with you, on a lot of levels, leaving me out of it. But I think I would always counsel reporters, 'cause sometimes I would read the stories. 'cause there was an era particularly it started with Trump, with the, it used to have that, I forget what the paragraph called.

It was like, we spoke to 37 current and former employees just like Uhoh. And there's gonna be a bunch of bad shit that comes afterwards. And let's face it, 

[00:24:44] Troy: It's the classic insider profile. 

[00:24:47] Brian: It's easy to find people saying negative things about anything. And that was a genre of story.

And what I would always say is the truth is way more complex. And it is always like a very messy, because humans are messy, humans are very contradictory. And I would often think, you know, honestly in source, I'm like, oh my God, what if this story was done on this organization? Like it could come out like all sorts of craziness, which in reality it was just a mix.

Like everything but

[00:25:17] Troy: Right. Or it's like, I noticed it the other day, to be honest, and I did talk to someone about this inside of, the organization that Matt Bellamy had, gone on his podcast and said, everybody's leaving Scooter bronze organization. Right? look, he must be out of his mind.

talent seemingly doesn't wanna stick around anymore. And look, they're all fleeing. And it just struck me. And he had someone on the podcast, this woman who used to be an editor, music editor at the wrong stone. I. I can't remember her name. That said, actually, that's not the story.

There's much more to it than that. There's changing business priorities and actually Scooter Braun has, you know, the talent relationships sometimes expire over time and that he's, beloved by many of the people he's worked with and all of this. And I just felt like sometimes we're really quick to look for the villain in the narrative.

[00:26:05] Brian: this, you should listen to the podcast I just did with Puck co-founder John Kelly, a, a listener of this podcast. John, hopefully you're listening. because we talked about this heroes and villains. 'cause I, I was talking, we were talking about how Puck has main characters in some ways, you know, Zas 

[00:26:21] Troy: Oh, that's their media, that's their strategy. They're brilliant. John's a brilliant

[00:26:23] Brian: Yeah. But like, so Michael Wolf, I remember, yeah. I worked with him very briefly he had said, he was like, it's heroes and villains. Find the heroes and find the villains. And that in some ways is the flaw of journalism to some degree. It's the storytelling. When I hear storytelling, I'm like, uhoh.

'cause storytelling is usually, it's narrative. And in order to have a a narrative, you need to sand off the inconveniently rough edges. and things become simplified in narratives for sure.

[00:26:52] Alex: Yeah. But I, I, wonder just when you're talking about people like Elon, the way I look at it is not the act itself, but you know, how much energy do you dispense to get to where you wanna be? So for example, if you're looking at an animal, like a leopard that eats a baby gazelle, right?

you could say, well, that's kind of cruel, but it isn't because it's eating. If you see a, an animal that's torturing, like a cat, torturing a mouse for hours, right? That is cruel. And I think that when,

[00:27:22] Brian: Wait, 

[00:27:23] Alex: yeah, yeah. I'm getting it. I'm getting 

[00:27:25] Brian: I think Troy and I are too New York for this stuff. The cat's just being a cat.

[00:27:29] Alex: Yeah. Okay.

Katz just being a cat. The thing is, there was an element of showboating of reveling in the pain and discomfort of others in taking extra steps to promote the pain that you're inflicting. there's this thing in, in wrestling, the bad guy always kind of like showboats before he is about to punch the guy in the nuts, right?

And I think there was this 

[00:27:50] Brian: There, there's been a number of times you've talked about punchy getting punched in the nuts.

[00:27:54] Alex: well, but the thing is like that narrative around somebody like Elon wasn't created by the press that needed a villain. Like he set it off. He made sure that part of his narrative was, I am doing this in a way that is exceptionally cruel.

I will attack somebody on Twitter. like my friend Halle, I will do this. And expose people's names and addresses and, and expose them to my rabbit fans. Like, that's fucking mean, man. That's like jerk behavior. That's not the media choosing a villain. The media was like fawning over him thinking he was the greatest hero we'd ever seen.

He was like, man of the year, three times in a row or something. This is very different. This is about figuring out that you can become very popular by being someone's asshole. he hurts the people we don't like, Which is very different. It's different to the guy from CNN being like, made up to be a villain because he did, whatever, Or, or, or watch. Yeah, yeah. Or, or you know, I was watching, the Blackberry movie, they have that kind of like sense of, did you see that? It's great, the Blackberry movie. Nah, it's, it's fantastic. and it, it pits these two kind of co-CEOs as vi villains and, and it has a little bit of turnaround and that's fine, right.

But I think in, in this case, I think there's a new breed of people. I mean, it's not new, it's strong men who like promote themselves as being assholes, but towards a group that you don't like. So that's fine. And it actually helps them and the media doesn't know how to respond to that. I think.

[00:29:19] Brian: Hmm. I think we've, are we good on the assholes?

[00:29:22] Alex: I don't dunno. It sounds, it sounds like, I shut down this conversation by,

with my, with my cat analogy.

[00:29:31] Brian: Well, I'm, I'm pro, I'm pro cats. Cats should do what

cats do. They've,they've been torturing 

mice since the beginning. I'm not 

saying the mice is, it's just how it is.

[00:29:39] Alex: pro cat choice pro Elon? and you wanna move on?

[00:29:43] Brian: I wanna move on to, well, I don't know if this will work. We'll see it's a little bit about, and, and in the same way of the complexity of it, optimism and pessimism when it comes with, AI in particular, because I, I have been going on this little Sam Harris, kick and he had a great, conversation, recently.

I, I got sold on him when he had the conversation with Mark Andreessen and sort of. Allowed Mark Andreesen enough rope to, to hang himself as not a very thoughtful person. Smart person, but not a very thoughtful person, 

[00:30:12] Alex: Oh, that's 

[00:30:13] Brian: interview. Yeah. 

I mean, it's just like that.

Those are great interviews. And it was funny 'cause he, he, mark Andreesen clearly came on and was just, thought he was just gonna swagger his way through it. And, he got hit with a shovel and that was great. but he had on Mustafa Suliman, who was the co-founder of DeepMind, I didn't know this guy before this Mustafa.

but he's very thoughtful. I, I feel like, and in a very non, he's, he's British and so he's not like an American. And I think Americans are often a little simplistic in how they approach things

[00:30:43] Alex: No, you know, I think, I think what you guys do is, for some reason, anybody with a British accent sounds 20% more intelligent.

[00:30:49] Brian: Well, I mean, every, anyone who's been into an ad agency knows that that is true. 

[00:30:54] Alex: Yes.

[00:30:54] Brian: All the strategists are, are British. I find, any case he had on Mustafa Suliman and this guy's very, very steeped in the issues obviously of ai and someone like Mark Andreessen just hand waves. I. Doomers, they're just doomers.

They're pessimists. It's the, the quote unquote, media is just trying to, and all the, he was very thoughtful, I thought. And I, one part actually stopped and, and wrote it down, something he said, and he said, we have to be focused on those downsides and not be afraid to talk about them. When I bring up these topics over the years, there's this pessimism aversion people who are constitutionally unable to have a dark conversation about how things may go wrong.

I'll get accused of not being an optimist, like that's some kind of sin. Or being a pessimist or optimist is a good way of framing things. Both are biased. I'm just observing the facts as I see them. And I think this is true for ai, but I think it's true for like any area in which there are thorny challenges and, again, I don't think it fits in with neat narratives and I think AI is going to, in particular challenge.

the, the neat narratives. Good or bad? I don't know. What do you think on this, Alex?

[00:32:05] Alex: Me, I think that media and social media, Is optimized around taking sides. And one of these sides can be, optimism and pessimism around technology. And I think it is absolutely the wrong way to look at it because, I get equally, frustrated with people who are saying everything's gonna go to shit.

And people are saying, no, everything's gonna be great, because it's like, it's not a useful conversation, right? That, Andreessen, interview was infuriating because he's the guy signing the checks. and so the problem is that it's not very interesting to have these conversations.

you're never gonna have viral tweet that starts with , well, it depends, you know, like, well, you know, like nobody gives a shit about that. And I'm not blaming the media for it. I just think that, We, we are being pushed into sides. And the more you know, the pessimism side starts having an argument, that kind of resonates.

The more the optimists feel like they have to counter it. And that's, it felt like, Andreessen was really on a defensive. Like he had heard all these things and he had, he was ready to denounce all of them, without any understanding of what could go on because he doesn't know and none of us do. So, I always thought like we all should be shades of realism.

I think being optimistic can be an energy you can put out into the world. It's like more of an intention. So I try to put optimism out as an intention. I want things to turn out well, so I will try to make things to turn out well. because I think if you think too much like a pessimist, that's what's going to.

Takeover. but yeah, I, I don't know. the AI stuff is way too important to have these stupid ass conversations Andreessen did. He's probably never going to invest in my company now, is he? Shit,

[00:33:43] Brian: He follows me. He follows me on Twitter. I haven't been blocked by him.

He blocks everyone apparently. Although you can't do that anymore, right?

[00:33:48] Troy: Who wants to be a pessimist anyway? I mean, it's not really about, those aren't

[00:33:53] Brian: no. Pessimism is just a label that like self-proclaimed optimist throw around to anyone who actually questions, 

[00:34:00] Troy: you see, you can't build new things in the world that have not been seen, without optimism. 'cause you have to believe that you know, data that you don't have. that something interesting will reveal itself. And that comes from, I think, a, a deep belief in both yourself and people around you, and that things are gonna turn out positively.

So in that context, optimism is a good thing. Where I see optimism go bad in a, corporate setting, is that when people rely on it without being strategic or critical. that happened to me today actually, where we were looking at a customer acquisition strategy for a company, and the person said, well, we just have to start, we have to be optimistic about this.

and it's that kind of, we'll do it and we'll skin our knee and we'll learn and all that. But it was like the strategy was wrong. Right. So being optimistic is fine, but it required an amount of, real critical analysis, in advance of, of that core optimism.

So I, I just think you can't be a builder without optimism, but the best ones know where to point that optimism is how I would look at it.

[00:35:10] Alex: Part. Part of the issue though is, is that those stories of like unstoppable optimism in the face of all these realities that kind of like hit you in the face, but you surpass and you build this billion dollar companies is the entire like myth building of Silicon Valley. Like that's the whole story.

[00:35:27] Brian: every grifter was, was a, was a card carrying, and loud optimist, right? I mean, every single one from Silicon Valley was. so I get, it's, it's, but to me, like cur what you're talking about, like the way you're defining is more, you have to be curious and you, yeah. You have to be optimistic that things can change.

You can't be like a, a, a, I don't know, a nihilist or something like this, but I just feel like it's, and particularly it can sometimes within companies be weaponized. It's like, I'm an optimist, you're a pessimist. And it sometimes can be used as cover for not doing the critical thinking. And a lot of I've seen in companies, one of the big risks is that it gets to a point where nobody will point out things that are screwed up and bad. And the reason they won't is because a culture develops that says that if you point out the downsides or things to consider that this is not the right way to go, 

[00:36:21] Alex: mm-hmm. 

[00:36:21] Brian: a pessimist 

[00:36:22] Troy: Yeah, or it's usually pointed at like Jimmy in it, who has to do all the work when the optimists fuck him and he has to do something useless at the end of the line 

he becomes the pessimist.

[00:36:34] Brian: ad ops is the home of pessimists. 

They get, they get a lot of shit.

[00:36:38] Alex: that's how you end up with a cyber truck. I think that it, 

[00:36:41] Troy: trucks, can we talk about the cyber truck? I 

[00:36:43] Alex: One second. I, I, I just want to, just one last thing. the way we were, I would try to do things is to take this from, improv of all things, I think in a company, especially when you're in that stage where you're dreaming about the future and you're trying to come up with stuff, You don't want people to just say yes or just say no.

Right. And I think it's, it's the idea of saying yes and yes, and here's how we're gonna do that, or here's how long this is gonna take. And, I do think that there's the pessimist into room and sometimes it's the it guy that just says, this is not possible. This is not possible. We can't put the keyboard on the screen.

This is not possible. We can't possibly, like, put, electric motors in a car or whatever that is. and I do think that there's a, place for these people, but it's also how you communicate some of these things. So I always, I always ask these people to go, including our good friend, Adrian, Troy, to say, well, next time just yes.

And this say yes and it's gonna cost us a million dollars and take 10 years,

[00:37:36] Brian: That actually came up on, on the, that my first million, podcast with, with Samir of Colin and Samir. And he, he talked about spending a lot of time with Mr. Beast. And one of the big surprises of that, I don't know, surprise, but his big like takeaway was how relentless he was in just persistently and not in an asshole way pushing, why can't we do this?

Why can't we do this? And he talks about, when Mr. Beberg, when they had like 20,000 people at American Dream Mall in New Jersey, and they were like, we can't possibly, feed all these people. And he's like, why? We can do the what, what if we did this? What if we did? And he just wouldn't take, and ultimately they did find a way around this, and it was all through his dogged persistency and. Yeah, and actually pushing to find a solution where the reality is, a lot of people would just be like, that's not possible.

[00:38:26] Alex: I've been called, and I hate being called an optimist because it, it makes you sound like you're not thinking things through. And I sometimes feel like my perseverance is confused for optimism because it's not that I think everything's gonna work out, but I'm I'll, I'll keep pushing through when they don't.

and I like people who think like that, And so I actually don't get along well with pessimists.

[00:38:45] Troy: Except, hey.

[00:38:46] Alex: Well, you know, he grounds me.

[00:38:47] Brian: I, I have a theory. I think 80% of pessimists are people labeled pessimists are not actually pessimists. That's my theory.

[00:38:55] Alex: I think it's a role,I, because I spoke to those IT guys, and I, I am lucky to have been part of both worlds. I'm technical, but I'm also on the design side and, and. A lot of people say like, I don't wanna be that guy, but if I'm not that guy, nobody's gonna say this. And so therefore it becomes my role to be the guy that says no, or the guy that like, slows things down.

Right. And I do think that you do need that guy and you need to listen to them, but people also need to learn, working in a company is how to learn how to influence people and make sure that your point comes across in a way that is compelling for everyone. So, we're not really teaching that as well.

[00:39:30] Brian: But to go back to your point, like on a team, I think I like your concept of a team because on a team, there's, there's different players and they play different positions and they have different roles. Like not everyone on a basketball team is, their role is to like shoot the ball from three point. some people need to set picks, some people need to get rebounds 

And when you have a team, you need different people who bring different things to the table and show me a company with solely people who are, card-carrying, self-proclaimed optimists. And it's probably a company that isn't asking enough critical questions if you ask me. So 

[00:40:02] Alex: For 

sure, 

[00:40:02] Brian: there's holes for everyone.

[00:40:03] Alex: and this is, this is, the segue to the, cyber truck that Troy really wants to

[00:40:07] Brian: Well, I wanna segue to that, but I wanna segue to Burning Man. I'm surprised you got out, Alex, but, 

[00:40:12] Alex: I didn't go, didn't go.

[00:40:14] Brian: did you copter, did 

you just like

[00:40:16] Alex: uh, we just talked to friends. We just, look, people love the shain freuder of that thing. don't go if you don't want to go. it's a hard thing to do, but if you do it and you do it with people you enjoy, you'll have a very. fun, interesting experience.

You'll get to experience art and music and all the bunch of shit that you wanna do. And I think if people wanna congregate in the desert and not bother anyone and have a good time, like we should let them, I'll partake in it once in a while. I won't do it every year. the drama was somewhat overblown.

It was pretty dramatic scenes. A friend said, you know, they were fine. It was a disappointment because a lot of things couldn't happen, there's a lot of canceled events because of rain. it's kind of disappointing seeing people like, get so happy that people might be miserable.

Like, 

[00:40:58] Brian: Yeah. I don't know. I think, I think that's part of the backlash against Silicon Valley, but maybe

[00:41:02] Alex: yeah, but there's a lot of different people going there,

[00:41:05] Brian: And inequality. 'cause I think, I think it's basically become synonymous with rich Silicon Valley 

people, I 

[00:41:11] Alex: I know, but 

like, that's not a, an intellectually honest argument and

people know it. 

[00:41:16] Brian: Hey, I'm

just, I'm

[00:41:17] Alex: saying you do, I'm just, uh, I'm just saying that

[00:41:20] Brian: don't label me the pessimist. I haven't been to Burning Man, but I was never invited and it's not really my thing. I like camping.

[00:41:25] Alex: you 

You 

[00:41:26] Troy: You don't need to, you can, you don't need to be invited,

Brian. 

[00:41:29] Brian: really?

[00:41:29] Troy: No, you can just go, here's the thing. If you, listen. Every event has a life cycle, and maybe Burning Man needs to morph into something new. But if you go to Burning Man, it's hard to not be struck by just the incredible display of human ingenuity.

And it is. it's everything that Alex just said, it's, yeah. Some people go there for, kind of like the drugs and sex and being able to do things they can't otherwise do or whatever. But it's just like the arts amazing interacting with, people that bring things to this kind of, non-commercial economy is great I mean, it's just, it's just really fun and I, it strikes me that we live in a time when haters wanna criticize anything out in around the idea that you could use your time to do something more productive for the world or this, this isn't good for the world in some shape or form, but I think that a bunch of people kind of expressing their human ingenuity and craft in the desert and having a good time is a wonderful kind of expression of just.

Basic humanity and it's good as, that's what it is. I mean, it's, this isn't a trade off for building, shelters for homeless people like these are not the same

[00:42:43] Brian: Yeah, there's a lot of that that, that's just going on. I think it's social media related. I, I just, I remember, like I, I posted a photo of now that when I got back to New York, they now have the interactive maps and stuff like this, and they tell, I'm like, this is amazing. Things are getting better. And immediately I got, they shouldn't be spending money on this until every single unhoused person is house.

I'm like, I think we. Should probably do both in, in the richest city, in the richest country in the world. But maybe that's me. But there is that knee-jerk reaction. And I think culturally, with the backlash to Silicon Valley, I think it exists. It might, maybe it's just in the quote unquote media that that led to some of the, the Schaden Freud, about Bernie.

Man, I've got no

[00:43:21] Alex: but it's, it's, actually connected to our assholes conversation, right? Like when a lot of it is about, look, there's these people. You don't like and something's happening to them that isn't great. And we're gonna frame it in a way that is kind of don't, they deserve it.

Everything's a narrative, right? Heroes, villains, we always like to see the comeuppance. Like, ha ha, that's what you get. 

[00:43:40] Brian: like the Fyre Festival, it was like that with the, the, influencers. 'cause there's an influencer backlash. And so when the Fyre Festival happened and a bunch of YouTubers were fighting over one, peanut butter and jelly sandwich, a lot of

[00:43:52] Alex: I mean that was, that was a, that was objectively hilarious. But I, I see your point. and I wonder if Troy thinks that's what's happening to the cyber truck. that because of Elon now people are ready to punch down in a cyber truck. And I'm trying to keep a much more grounded perspective on this

[00:44:12] Brian: Well, he's also cutting, cutting the price quite a bit like on, on,

the Tesla models. It's just

[00:44:18] Troy: Yeah, I can bet you a hundred bucks that you'll have one in two years on the ranch in Sonoma.

[00:44:22] Alex: No, never. I can tell you why, because I am actually in the market for a truck. Number one, it won't pull a trailer, long enough. And charging a car that pulls a trailer means you have to

unhook every time. Because

I 

[00:44:33] Troy: pulling a 

[00:44:33] Brian: what do you 

[00:44:34] Alex: have 

an, I have an Airstream or

[00:44:36] Brian: Oh, do you? 

[00:44:36] Troy: really well? You can, I saw them pull a 

[00:44:38] Brian: Why were you not a burning 

[00:44:40] Alex: Oh, I have a five-year-old. That's why. the

[00:44:42] Troy: I always thought it was weird when people brought five year olds to Burning Man, by the way.

[00:44:46] Brian: Why? Because of the orgies. I've never been, again, I've never been.

[00:44:52] Alex: no. Look, burning Man is 70,000 people. you can do a bunch of stuff and never be exposed to anything. You don't wanna be, exposed to. You can, kids are actually a great time for kids. I, the reason I wouldn't bring kids is because I wouldn't wanna have a different type of fund that I can't have with my kids.

Also, it's a hundred degrees during the day and like 40 at night. So it's not super fun if you're in a tent. But, no, I can tell you why I think the, the cyber truck, what seems to have happened is potentially you know, just bad project management and leadership, if they had announced this thing as a concept car, you know, the way Mercedes and B about w does, that gives them an allowance to.


[00:45:24] end
---

[00:45:24] Alex: Really tweak it before they make it roadworthy, it's like, o couture, right? Where you see like something coming down the runway, but what ends up in the store is really simplified. They wouldn't have gotten themselves in in that much trouble. There are a lot of issues that they're, that they had with including having to add mirrors back, which they didn't, just the overall kind of view from within the car, including, the, uh, windshield wiper that looks whack as hell and doesn't cover the entire window, and the bed being actually like, quite small for most truck needs.

it feels like a, downgrade from what they showed. And I don't ever think that's really good for a brand to like, get people excited about something and then deliver something that's like 80, 70, 60% of it.

[00:46:06] Brian: But wait is isn't, isn't that the entire Silicon Valley software development ethos? The, the fuck it ship it mentality? It isn't. That just applied. 

[00:46:14] Alex: but unlike soft, yeah, I think there's differences. software is easy to change and upgrade. Nobody remembers the version that was there a year ago. but cars are, gonna be on the road for a long time, and the thing kind of looks whack. Now, I don't know if you've

[00:46:29] Troy: No, but you, you missed all of its virtues, Alex. Like well, the frame, the stainless steel, the fact that not everybody needs a huge truck bed that 

[00:46:39] Alex: Well, you have a rivian that does that. I mean, it's not, it's not

[00:46:42] Troy: well, but the good luck by the Rivian, there's probably a 50% chance that they go bankrupt. So there, 

[00:46:49] Alex: I think Tesla is going to do just fine. I think it's overvalued, but the new model three and stuff like that, they're all great cars. I just think that in this case, it looks like just from a project management, that was a product that was announced to great fanfare and a product that's being released is

[00:47:03] Troy: Alex, you like the way, do you like the way it looks?

[00:47:05] Alex: No, I, I, don't need to though, because I actually appreciated that somebody was doing something different.

Now, if that bumps into you even going five miles an hour, it might cut you in half. And I don't want, you know, I think, I think it does look very comfortable to, to lean against, but you know, who gives a shit like it, people might like it. It does look pretty broey and militaristic though, right? It does look like a little Robocop.

[00:47:28] Brian: It reminds me of the Hummer. Remember the Hummer was popular for like three years. A lot of assholes got those.

[00:47:33] Troy: Tons. Yeah. No, it's, it's gonna be the new asshole cart, but I'm just saying it's, it's gonna sell well.

[00:47:38] Brian: Because there's a lot of assholes out there. 

[00:47:40] Alex: So I've been driving a Tesla for like four or five years now, and I've noticed that once in a while there'll be somebody in a big, in a big truck that would find me annoying just because I own a Tesla.

I would kind of rev their engine next to me or just like, blast me with some gas because like I was some cuck driving an electric car, and these guys must be so fucking confused right now because, but you know, oh, you know, like, these two symbols are conflicting in their brain, completely breaking their brains.

[00:48:08] Troy: You should get a, you should get a cuck bumper sticker.

[00:48:11] Alex: that's, yeah. 

[00:48:13] Brian: That reminds me, I, I have this rule about like how I know if I'm in like a redneck area, I don't know if you can still say redneck. it's if someone will slow down to yell at me while I'm running, like usually some sort of slur like that happens in like redneck areas.

[00:48:29] Troy: What do they say to you? How dare them?

[00:48:31] Alex: we don't wanna get 

[00:48:32] Brian: like there's a lot of people who own pickup trucks who are against like people running.

It even happens in Pennsylvania, where I was living in Pennsylvania, during the early pandemic was right on the edge of Philly and like redneck Pennsylvania.

[00:48:46] Troy: Maybe they thought you were like a crack head running from the scene of a 

crime. 

[00:48:50] Brian: You

can't 

say crackhead

yeah, no, I think it's more like for some reason, like having an electric car and going out for a jog was connected to being a liberal, and that's that's how smart the conversation is, right now. So, All 

right, Do you wanna leave it there?

[00:49:02] Troy: Okay. 

[00:49:03] Alex: fine 

with leaving it there.

I 

think we covered 

[00:49:05] Brian: I think this is actually pretty good heroes, villains and assholes. That's what I wanna call it.

[00:49:08] Alex: Here's 

villains and assholes. 


[00:49:09] good product
---

[00:49:13] Troy: for good product, I would say we gotta, I. Shout out to the US Open because it's a, it's a great tournament and it's extremely fun to go. I'm going back tomorrow and there's a match on right now.

[00:49:22] Brian: Do you know what I say about tennis? This is my theory about tennis. It is the sport for people who don't like sports. You do not find people who are passionate about the N B A and N F L, who are also, generally, usually the people who are most into, particularly the US Open are people who don't like sports.

[00:49:38] Troy: Well, I can't wait for the N F L to start.

[00:49:41] Brian: You're an exception. Like everything, Troy.

[00:49:43] Alex: Yeah, 

[00:49:43] Brian: I, 

[00:49:44] Alex: you're an original.

[00:49:45] Brian: I'm just saying, if you go to the US Open, a lot of those people are not sports fans.

[00:49:49] Troy: Have you been to the, have you been?

[00:49:50] Brian: To the US Open? Not this year. I've been before,

[00:49:53] Troy: Wonderful. 

[00:49:54] Alex: Oh, I, I'll make you proud. I'm going to a sporting event, this year.

I'm going to, no, I do want to go see that badly. I'm going to see Formula One

[00:50:03] Troy: Where? 

[00:50:04] Alex: in Mexico City. 

[00:50:05] Brian: cool.

[00:50:06] Troy: Oh, that's fun. 

[00:50:07] Alex: A 

[00:50:07] Troy: you going with?

[00:50:08] Alex: bunch of friends.

[00:50:09] Troy: Huh? 

[00:50:09] Brian: Interesting. 

[00:50:10] Alex: I'll, need to get to a point where I give a shit about Formula One by then, so I'll watch that Netflix show.

I think that's what everybody

[00:50:15] Brian: We record the podcast from it. That would be great.

[00:50:18] Alex: Yes. We'll record a podcast from Mexico City.

[00:50:21] Brian: I have a lot going on next week. For instance, like,on September 12th I'm doing a webinar, with Onic and, Jacob Donnelly from, and we're talking about AI and search. so 

I'm 

not available, 

[00:50:33] Alex: us so people can know it's an ad?

[00:50:35] Brian: I'm not available. Then it's on 1:00 PM on September 12th.

So we can't, we can't record then.

[00:50:40] Alex: Is it September 12th at 1:00

pm you're having a webinar? 

Well, I 

if I forgot 

where could I find the information?

[00:50:46] Brian: It could be in the show notes. again, it's a webinar, but we're gonna really make it better than a webinar. I don't like the term webinar, but, I think it's gonna be a lot of fun. Jacob Donnelly, it's my rival at a media operator.

We're trying to

do 

[00:50:58] Alex: so there's gonna be, are you telling me that there's gonna be tension storytelling, live? 

[00:51:03] Brian: Yeah. yeah. 

[00:51:03] Alex: sounds, great. Well, that's good that you told us that. Thank you. I.

[00:51:06] Troy: Yeah. I mean, j Jacob is a competent sort of documenter of operational things in media, but he's No. Brian Morrissey. 

Come on. 

[00:51:13] Brian: Wow. That's 

not, thank you, Troy.

[00:51:15] Alex: So anyway, do we, yeah.

[00:51:16] Brian: I'm just kidding.

[00:51:17] Alex: When are we gonna get start getting ads? I think I'm coming around to ads.

[00:51:20] Troy: one last thing. that note that you got from that very thoughtful,

[00:51:24] Brian: Hi Cynthia. 

[00:51:25] Troy: comment there, Cynthia. Thank you, Cynthia. I thought you made some really great points. I do think that 

the point of view 

[00:51:31] Alex: do you wanna go

[00:51:32] Troy: Brian can, do you wanna summarize it, Brian, that just, that basically not everybody sees advertising or branded content the same way.

[00:51:39] Brian: it's Cynthia Meyers. she's a historian of advertising and she's also, been, professor of it. she talked about the death of the ad formats episode, and how people perceive, particularly young people perceive sponsored content or, or what ads are.

and I'm not gonna go into all the, the main points, but it was very thoughtful. 

[00:51:58] Troy: But she said that Seb had one point of view. My son was on that episode, right? And he, she said that others, maybe don't see advertising the same way.

[00:52:06] Brian: Yeah, 

[00:52:06] Alex: especially younger people in, other kind of,

[00:52:08] Brian: Well, the thing with advertise everyone always claims they're not influenced by advertising. Everyone, everyone, and particularly young people.

[00:52:15] Alex: I mean, I think I bought these pants off, Instagram, so

[00:52:17] Brian: I'd love. Instagram advertising. I gotta say, I'd love it

[00:52:20] Troy: I would have to say that at this point, both Facebook and Instagram have become the biggest modern catalogs in the world, and their value proposition is largely advertising.

[00:52:31] Alex: Guys, have you, have you tried out, and I think maybe this could be a good product, have you tried out live TikTok?

[00:52:39] Troy: Yes, of course. That's where the, it's psychotic, Alex. It's

the, 

[00:52:43] Alex: It's like Q V C for, for Gen Z. It's

incredible. 

That's, 

[00:52:46] Troy: V C for crackheads.

[00:52:48] Brian: do you

keep talking about 

Crackheads? I'm reading. I'm reading when Crack was king. book, terrible. You terrible. 

[00:52:56] Alex: Yeah, well, if you want the fut, see the future of media, get on TikTok live and try to understand what the fuck is happening right now,

because that's when 

[00:53:04] Brian: That, N p C lady is, is doing that. Right?

[00:53:07] Troy: Yeah. 

Alex, do you do your, interpretation of her?

[00:53:10] Alex: hotdog's so good. Meow, meow.

[00:53:12] Brian: That's actually pretty good.

[00:53:15] Troy: Yeah. 

[00:53:15] Alex: Yeah.

maybe I should do it. But people do it in all sorts of ways. So, people will rate your pet name, so you text your pet name and they'll say, that's a nine out of 10, that's a 10 out of 10, that's an eight out of 10. And they'll write it out. Or some people will pay a little few cents and a person will live, draw kind of their name in fancy fonts and people are making, money off that You know, the, organic, the agency used to have everything that can be digital will be, and I think they we're absolutely right. Troy had something to do with that, maybe, I don't know. but you know, everything that can be monetized will be, and, we were thinking about how do we get to these true micro transactions and, TikTok live is, is the future guys.

[00:53:54] Troy: your pet? What's your pet name? Just so I see when I see you on there.

[00:53:57] Alex: Alan,

[00:53:57] Brian: I love pet names that are human names. I have a neighbor here, his dog's name is Caroline. and my wife and I find it hilarious that he has a dog named Caroline. 

[00:54:06] Alex: just take it

seriously. 

[00:54:07] Troy: My, next dog, I'm calling Dave.

[00:54:10] Alex: Yeah. Dave, the dog. It's great.

[00:54:12] Troy: Yeah. 


[00:54:12] outro
---

[00:54:13] Brian: all right. 

That, that was good. I think that was really good. that was coming out strong 

[00:54:17] Alex: All we needed was a break. A 

little bit of a fight, thanks for listening. please follow us. please tell your friends to subscribe 

please rate and reviewers we'll read every review that you post, on this 

podcast. 

[00:54:30] Troy: will you, make noises like those people on TikTok? If you

get 

[00:54:33] Brian: this 

could be our 

monetization 

[00:54:35] Alex: Mm

mm review. So good. Mm. 

Five star, five star review. So good.

[00:54:40] Brian: you 

go. 

[00:54:40] Alex: just so that the audience knows, I'm also doing this in a bikini.

[00:54:44] Troy: 

