PvA S4E177
===


[00:00:00] Open
---

​

[00:00:01] Troy: Alex, my, what did you call it the other day? Pimp Personal intelligence media platform. No ads. 

[00:00:07] Alex: No 

[00:00:07] Brian: Oh, that's 

[00:00:08] Alex: It's true.

is great because we don't even have to pay for all the tokens we're burning. 

[00:00:12] Troy: Have you tried it again? I just, added a new news source to it. 

[00:00:16] Alex: it. It's really fast. 

[00:00:18] Brian: Let's move through these things quicker. I feel like we need pace, 

[00:00:22] Alex: I I'll try to, I, I don't wanna interrupt, but like, it's hard sometimes for me to like, move things along.

And, and wrapped the thing we, we needed. 

[00:00:29] Troy: You can interrupt Alex. Don't interrupt me. 

[00:00:32] Brian: all right.

Should we get started?

​


[00:00:44] Reptile Rescue
---

[00:00:44] Brian: I just wanna like paint the scene. from yesterday at URA Vita, I go in, okay, I am waiting in line for my pb lover Acai bowl, which is the best order of Port Vita. And there's a commotion. I get jostled. I was unhappy about that. And then I turn around and there is an iguana that has entered into the store.

I don't know if you guys have had many I iguana encounters. they're crazy little creatures and they freaked a lot of people out. And the iguana was by far the most terrified of any creature in that store. And. Nobody was doing anything, I gotta admit, like I was like, it'll just eventually leave. That was my strategy.

Not this hero. This guy came in, he was busing tables. He took off his apron, he threw the apron onto the iguana, picked it up under its little arms and calmly carried it out. 

[00:01:36] Alex: I mean, that's the types of heroes we need. 

[00:01:38] Troy: I wish someone would do that with Iran. 

[00:01:41] Alex: I think that's what somebody thought Iran would be like. But my, my guess is that this happened in Miami, not New York. Right?

[00:01:47] Brian: Yeah, there's no iguanas as far as I

[00:01:50] Troy: Oh. 

[00:01:50] Brian: I don't know if Momani has Momani brought,iguanas there. Although, you know, weird thing about iguanas is they're an invasive species. They're not native to, everything's fake in Florida, and so they're not actually supposed to be here. I mean, nothing against, look, it's not for me to judge, but I'm just saying that they're not like.

[00:02:08] Troy: You better be careful 

[00:02:11] Brian: I'm not gonna put ice on the iguana. So, anyway, it all worked out. gave this guy kudos.

[00:02:17] Troy: you would take a stand more often, Brian, like you do on our private sessions now. You won't even insult an iguana 

[00:02:24] Brian: I'm not gonna say,

I mean, no, I'm not gonna insult the iguana. The iguana is not, it, it didn't do anything wrong. it didn't want to be there. It ended up there by accident. And ev everyone, everyone won because the Taurus all got like an iguana story and I think that's great. I actually asked the

[00:02:41] Troy: You started the podcast with sort of, you know, whining, you know, cube worker energy, and now you won't, you won't go after even the iguana, except when I call you privately, you're, you're like all over, everybody 

[00:02:56] Alex: The lesson here is not to have any private conversation with Troy.

[00:03:01] Brian: I think so, I'll try to, I'll try to channel some of that. I don't remember what it's about, but, let's get started. 


[00:03:07] Welcome
---

[00:03:07] Brian: welcome to people versus algorithms. Show about detecting patterns in media, technology, culture, real estate, money, geopolitics, iguanas, straight of hor, monitoring the situation.

Welcome, Troy. I'm glad you got your technology sorted out over there. And Alex,

[00:03:28] Troy: I now have a double double monitor set up and there's a six week back order on the Mac Mini waiting for that. I'm in full, full vibe code mode now, but I've basically destroyed my laptop with all kinds of, you know, dockers and,

[00:03:46] Brian: I think so. I think you should reconsider this. You might need, we might need to buy you a Mac Mini 

[00:03:53] Troy: I just bought one. It's just a, it's the wait time. I sent one to my kid too, and her and I are, communing around, the different apps that we made. She made one yesterday called, film Brain, which allows you to put in your, what's the repository of film reviews that everybody uses? Alex, you probably use it letterbox.

So she has 1500 films in her letterbox account. You put in your letterbox account in her app, and then you describe in natural language what kind of, you know, feeling you're having and what kind of movie you wanna watch right now. And it recommends based on your historical consumption. yeah, it made, it helped me find a movie last night. 

[00:04:32] Brian: I, I wanna get into your, your little

[00:04:34] Troy: One good Friday. 

[00:04:36] Brian: you made a lot of progress. 


[00:04:38] Mixer recap and mishaps
---

[00:04:38] Brian: I, I'm impressed by it, but a couple of quick updates. First of all, unfortunately, we had, we had the mixer right after our last, recording. And Alex, you didn't make it. Neither did ab. but Troy, Troy graced us, the community with his presence, which was very nice.

unfortunately by accident I made Troy wait outside for a

[00:05:04] Troy: It was absolutely, it was humiliating.

[00:05:07] Brian: Was it more or less humiliating than that time? I sent my, AI 

[00:05:11] Troy: it's just when people in line line are like, wait, wait, shouldn't you be able to get in?

[00:05:16] Brian: I wasn't checking my messages. I was, I'm still new to the party planner. you know, thing. So there's some

[00:05:23] Troy: You become a bit of a kind of nerd celebrity Brian. They like you. Those people, they, they really like

[00:05:29] Brian: It's good. anyway, it was a great mixer, other than, you know, the, the, the strict bouncing by that, cocktail place, but that's what you

[00:05:38] Alex: Did you try, so Troy, did you try to say like, was there like a, do you know who I am? Moment there?

[00:05:43] Troy: No, that's not my,

[00:05:45] Brian: that

Scottish guy, I don't know if you ran into him, he was very strict. He was very persnickety

[00:05:49] Troy: I mean, it was a gray party. Nice environment. I gotta say the sort of commodity meat and cheese tray

[00:05:55] Brian: I know that I gotta look again. It's gonna be optimized. There was some meats and cheeses and you know, I don't know, maybe I drove home the message too much about, cost efficiency on that front. 'cause, you know, look, the cocktail place is is pretty expensive. Anyway, it was a good party. hope to do more in the future.

We'll do more in the future. 

[00:06:14] Alex: I'll try to 

attend

[00:06:15] Brian: 


[00:06:15] PageMaker nostalgia
---

[00:06:15] Brian: did you guys see Paul Brainerd, the maker of PageMaker, died only 78 too. That's really young these days. Troy, you, you had experience with PageMaker. I never used PageMaker. I used Cork. 

[00:06:29] Troy: Yeah, I, I had a kind of a nostalgic moment. When did you see the video on the page of an old Mac running PageMaker, where you had like the text insertion thing that flashed where you had, you loaded all your text, into PageMaker and then you inserted into, you know, a page, just these different, you know, navigational or, you know, tool constructs that were really familiar to me.

I, I don't know. I, I learned to. Use and love the Mac with PageMaker. That was my experience. And I was living in a, I guess I would call it a transitional moment in the new newspaper production, where we would make pages or columns, on the computer with PageMaker. We'd make ads with a different product.

We'd print them out on a, laser jet printer, and we would bring them to the pay up table and then roll them onto what are called flats with wax. And then we would drive those flats to the printer and they would use them. They would take pictures of them and turn them into negatives and use them in the printing press.

But like, you know, I don't know, it was just a moment where I looked at it, I was like, oh my God, that was such a long time ago. And I loved PageMaker at the time. It feels so antiquated now. It's like an old car. 

[00:07:53] Alex: Yeah. 

[00:07:54] Brian: PageMaker.

[00:07:55] Troy: You probably used it, Alex. No. You're a little younger. You maybe

[00:07:59] Alex: I didn't have a Mac. I wasn't, rich enough to own Max. For me, it

[00:08:02] Brian: They didn't let me near cork. Like the, the production people were 

like, you know, stay away. Stay away. The only time I got to go over to Cork is if words needed to be cut from my story because like some lazy editor would just cut from the bottom and I'm like, no, you need to use a scalpel.

[00:08:19] Troy: What? What? What did you have? If you didn't have a Mac, you had like

No. No, but Alex said he didn't have a Mac. He couldn't afford one. You just had an old junky

[00:08:28] Alex: Yeah, and Ventura publisher was the one,

[00:08:30] Troy: Okay. Oh, yeah. Yeah.

[00:08:32] Alex: I mean, all that software was pirated, so it was, it was easier.

[00:08:35] Troy: had corral draw.

[00:08:37] Alex: I mean, yeah, sure. but it was a wild thing to change a font on a screen at the time. Right. 

[00:08:43] Brian: Yeah,

[00:08:44] Alex: easy to forget, but, uh,

[00:08:45] Brian: we have, we have greatly progressed since then. And now anyone can make software. I mean, you could vibe, code PageMaker probably this weekend, Troy, and you have continued. I'm glad I started this and then in, in true fashion, like basically dropped it myself. But it was really to an impetus to get you, making software and you have continued on with your vibe coding project.


[00:09:09] Building PIMP aggregator
---

[00:09:09] Brian: Please give us an update on, I believe it's called Pimp.

[00:09:14] Troy: Pimp the, the personal, what is it? Personal intelligence media plat, personal information media platform. 

[00:09:20] Alex: Something like 

that.

[00:09:21] Troy: Well, let's use that. well, first of all, what problem is it solving for me? I mean, what I wanted was a, was a project to, to test all this stuff out on. And I wanted to wade into the world of. Cloud code and, all the other, coding tools. So the problem is, is that I, I love aggregators. I said this last week, the Internet's littered with garbage. It's intolerable how bad webpages are. There's so much content to consider. And I wanted kind of one interface that aggregated up all my sources and no junkie experience.

so, you know, there's been a million people, well, a million, there's been a whole bunch of these sort of news aggregators over the years. if you recall, do you remember the one that Yahoo bought? I think it was called Sumy from that

[00:10:09] Brian: Sunley.

[00:10:10] Troy: British teenager for $30 million. And he was 17 years old when he sold it to Yahoo.

And then more recently they bought 

[00:10:18] Brian: Totally got outta media even smarter. 

[00:10:20] Troy: Amazing, but there's just been a lot of, you know, media aggregation tools. There's another, the one was called Artifact that Kevin and Mike Krieger started and 

sold it to Yahoo.

[00:10:30] Alex: They sold it to Yahoo.

Huh?

[00:10:32] Troy: same idea. Yeah. so basically what I did is I pull in all my sources, wall Street Journal, New York Times, Techmeme.

I do something kind of interesting where I authenticate with cookies before we aggregate and before we summarize. So all of the summary and all of the, the, the, you know, the interface layer presentation is based on full article abstraction, which is kind of cool. It dynamically creates clusters with a little serv, like topical clusters.

Like right now it's, I, you were on more Trump oil prices, meta inflation, et cetera. Those are all created by looking at overlap between articles and sending out requests to Claude Haiku and bringing back topical clusters. I'm talking dirty tech talk now. 

Anyway, 

then, 

[00:11:20] Brian: this sounds like a mainstream,

activity.

[00:11:23] Troy: Feeling like I was now overwhelmed with too much information. 'cause I had like 20 sources being summarized on a page. and then all the topical stuff, I did a couple things. I put a little, summarize button that opens up the article in a, in the right window, that, like I said, uses, uses clot or Gemini to summarize the article in that interface, which is useful, I connected it to all my newsletters.

So I no longer go into my Gmail box to get my newsletters. I put them all into a bucket, a new newsletter box, and it pulls them all in. And then I can read them in here. I created a, a thing that summarizes all the day's news in four hour increments in one, one document. So that's like my kind of meta meta summary.

oh, yesterday I added a nice little feature to cross-reference Calci Calci markets with the news. So if there's a market that pertains to a news story, it lists it as a market and you can see what people are betting on around that news item. I created it with Google Stitch was my design partner, and Claude Code was my coating partner.

And I got into a lot of trouble. I'm sure the code is a disaster. It's, I deployed it on something called railway, which I don't even, it's like some complicated nerd tool. And I've got like, you know, my GitHub account, Docker, all this kind of stuff running, and, I'm sure that I have huge security vulnerabilities.

But anyway, that's what I built.

[00:12:53] Alex: This is, this is astounding, Troy. This is like. at first when you started talking about it, you had a little bit of the energy of, a retiree that just got into remote controlled airplanes. 

[00:13:04] Brian: Yeah, my brother talks about fly fishing this

[00:13:08] Alex: Yeah. Okay. Exactly. But I gotta say, like, I, I, and until now, I just realize like the amount of. Because this is not just like a, you know, type in a prompt and get this done right? You had to get onto railway, you got to get a GitHub account, and then the, the, the authenticating with your cookies so that you can kind of use, stuff behind a paywall. I mean, this is a genuinely, and then being able to use a second tool like the, the, the Google one to build the ui.

I wouldn't even know where to start with this. This is really impressive.


[00:13:42] Vibe coding goes mainstream
---

[00:13:42] Troy: Well, can I tell you what I learned, Alex, from this? First of all, I learned that the recurs iveness of Claude, where it goes back and fixes its bugs is bananas. So it used to be like you wrote code and then you deployed it, and then you see, then you would check if it worked and you would go back. Now the thing is recursive and it, and it's, it just solving problems all the time.

Crazy. second observation, vibe coating. Super fun. It's like hammer radio shit for me. Anyway. You can call it a retired 

[00:14:10] Alex: No, no, I think you, I think, I think you took it beyond that. I

[00:14:14] Brian: Well, I think that's an, that, that's an important point, but we can go back to it.

[00:14:17] Troy: Well, a a couple other points is, and this is a longstanding observation, is the back and forth between what you want and technology. Brian. It's like when you said yesterday that you wanna build your own CRM, the key with this is that I keep using it and seeing that it doesn't work the way I want it to, or it's not solving my problem, and I immediately change the functionality or the design.

And so the relationship between product and building is the sort of secret of a great craftsperson, like just constantly being able to make 

something 

[00:14:50] Brian: I want to get onto AI slop, but I guess what I want to know is through this process, has it changed how you view the diffusion of this technology and whether this is going to become a more regular thing? Because, I mean, my belief is that maybe 10% of the population wants to do this, maybe.

[00:15:11] Troy: Well, what the companies like lovable have already extended app development into a new audience, right? Because it's made it really easy to build and deploy apps and it's, I don't know, they have like a billion dollar run rate. It's like a material company. Now, I would say that. We're creating an entirely new concept of how you build tools around your needs.

And obviously tool makers are gonna make it more and more accessible to people that are less technical than I am to build stuff like, and you're gonna see. Remember Brian, there's a, a good example is home automation. There's a lot, I have a lot of home automation stuff, and a lot of the tools are, are the apps that you need to control your lights or your music or whatever it is.

You have home automation for, you know, your, the temperature of your house, whatever are really bad, the really, really bad apps. And what's gonna happen is my next project is gonna sniff out all of the,home automation items that are on my home network and build a text space interface with open claw that I can just text like whatever I want, turn, change the temperature, turn the lights on, turn the coffee machine on.

so I think there's gonna be a lot of people that do this. And I think that it's the reason why philanthropic made such a good choice in being the kind of alpha cold coding partner, because that's not just for coders anymore. It's for, it's for a much larger part of the population. 

[00:16:42] Brian: Hmm. 

[00:16:42] Alex: I would. Brian, it doesn't, we don't need the majority of people to move into this. We're talking about going from 0.01% of the population being able to do this to 1% of the P population being interested in doing this. That's hugely disruptive, you know? and what Troy did like sounds complicated.

Now it'll become easier and easier because a big part of probably what you did, Troy, is help. The machine help you scope out the product, right? Like, Hey, what are the steps? Let's talk about it first.

[00:17:15] Troy: It helped me write the PRD Alex, and it certainly helped me navigate, the sort of what's called the, the DevOps questions.

[00:17:23] Alex: And, and, and also, right, I had. Claude build its own skill, et cetera. And then there's new tools coming up, and I was going to propose that one to you, Troy, but I think you're way beyond that. But, perplexity computer is no joke, a fucking a miracle. it uses every. LLM and it essentially runs in the background and it will just build tools for you when you, Brian, I would just try, try an account and see, hey, I need a CRM and that thing will just keep asking you questions until it works.

[00:17:55] Brian: Yeah. Yeah. I'm gonna, I'm 

gonna give it A 

try. I don't wanna use perplexity computer. I don't like that guy.

[00:18:00] Alex: yeah, fair enough. But I mean, just

as a

[00:18:02] Brian: I don't want him to win. I don't, I want, I like to root for people who are likable to win, and I don't like him.

[00:18:07] Alex: I 

[00:18:07] Troy: Two things. One for you, Brian, and one for you Alex. One is that. Per your question, Brian, my token usage went up a hundred extra in the last three days. So if, if one to 

10%

[00:18:19] Brian: around. I think every time I click 

around. that I'm costing you

[00:18:22] Troy: well you're, you're sucking up my tokens, but it's the dev tokens that went through the roof 'cause I was developing so much.

So that's the first one. The second one is in my daughter who built Film Brain last night, her and her boyfriend, he's an engineer, she's a financial analyst. They're both pretty technical. I said, my friend Brian needs a new CRM. Can you build it for him? 

[00:18:41] Brian: Really, 

[00:18:42] Troy: like, these are not people that would've, wouldn't consider themselves developers, but now they're so deep into this cloud stuff, they could help define your requirements and build you a

[00:18:52] Alex: Yeah, it's absolutely, it's absolutely disruptive because even if you don't want, if you don't want to do it, the, the cost is going to be just like basically reduced to, to, to pennies,

[00:19:03] Troy: Well, it's, I told them to charge you 50 grand, but like 

[00:19:06] Alex: And was that before? Was that before or after you were like stuck

[00:19:09] Brian: 50 grand. I don't know about that, although I wasted nearly as much trying to, trying to regularly develop a CRM, last year. 


[00:19:18] OpenAI Sora shutdown
---

[00:19:21] Brian: Let's talk about AI's slot problem because open ai, is shutting down Sora after just a year. Hilariously just three months after it made a deal with Disney, a $1 billion deal.

It was supposed to be for three

[00:19:33] Alex: which was never fully ratified. Apparently, Disney folks were having meetings at OpenAI about half an hour

[00:19:39] Brian: just hilarious. The entire last generation was these di these media companies basically playing Charlie Brown, trying to cook, kick the football with, with, big tech, playing the Lucy part, constantly pulling it back and sending, sending media companies flying. this does say something I believe about, AI and, and where it is going.

The focus is on focus, the enterprise, more than, consumer, it seems. Alex, what do you, what's the significance of, of this? 

[00:20:10] Alex: OpenAI has done this pivot into enterprise because they're realizing, they're getting their ass asses kicked by the philanthropic team. And so they probably want all that compute back. And Soar is probably very, very intensive compute wise. And they're, you know, obviously the thing didn't,it wasn't as successful as they were expecting it to be, so,

[00:20:32] Brian: was super expensive 

[00:20:33] Alex: Super expensive to run. So, but, but it, 

[00:20:36] Brian: Fat Troy, didn't you use it to create Fat Troy? I mean, 

fat 

Troy alone probably cost open AI like a million dollars. 

[00:20:43] Alex: Yeah. Probably pro.

[00:20:44] Troy: I made fat, by the way, 

[00:20:46] Alex: yeah.

[00:20:46] Troy: yeah. 

[00:20:48] Alex: I,


[00:20:48] AI slop and media value
---

[00:20:57] Alex: I would say that what we are also seeing is just a consumer response to. To kind of this broad category of AI slop, where consumers are just saying no to it or just,or not really entertaining this as a valuable part of their media diet.

So sure things will come up. We'll laugh at Fat Troy, but I don't think this is a business. This is something we talked about before. If you, if you have the ability to create all this content. It becomes very valueless and the thing that you will attach value to is the person behind it. Right? I think our, our relationship with media has been that since the beginning.

This is why we have stars in movies. This is why we like reality TVs, we like seeing the people behind the thing. And this AI stuff is not, is not like the, the consumers are not, falling in love with it. Like, and, and, and I put in that category, 

[00:21:42] Troy: I'm falling in love with it. I actually don't. I think we should be careful that we dismiss all of 

it. 

[00:21:46] Alex: I'm not 

[00:21:47] Troy: really like 

[00:21:48] Brian: I know you're on record as being pro slop. I got it.

[00:21:50] Troy: Well, I like the fruit and vegetable people in 

[00:21:53] Alex: right. But you, you're, you're, you're hitting that age where you're gonna be liking, 

uh, 

the shrimp Jesus videos on, 

[00:21:59] Brian: is it on Facebook? 

[00:22:00] Troy: no. no. I also like the, I also, and I think you would too, Alex. I like the Chinese cat drama. 

[00:22:06] Alex: I don't, 

[00:22:07] Brian: I like Chloe vs history.

It's a AI influencer that they, that they drop into like Pompeii and she's like, oh my God, guys, this place is incredible

[00:22:17] Alex: I think the way we're, the way we're experiencing this is like, like we really have to, start talking about like. What is the value of media, right? Like when the film camera was first invented, people would line up to watch a train, arrive at the station, right? But then once that was commoditized, there's no more value because we crave novelty, we crave the human connection, and these things destroy all that.

So if you're gonna build a platform that costs,

[00:22:44] Troy: People videos.

[00:22:45] Alex: no, but let's, let's look at Disney for a 

[00:22:48] Brian: I mean, this is why I'm a party planner. I mean, 

what are you talking about?

[00:22:52] Alex: But let's look at,

[00:22:53] Brian: I'm like the least likely party planner in the world. Like, yes, I know Alex.

[00:22:56] Alex: let's look at di. Let's look at Disney for example. Di I think everybody, the AI psychosis has like. Has infected the entire executive class in media, right? Like Apple has done the dumbest shit ever by trying to respond to, to ai. All its little notification summaries are hilarious. All the things that tell you, you know, you should respond to your friend like this.

I think all of those things are slop. People are not liking it. They're not responding to it. They, they're fully saturated with it. So consumers have been exposed to it, but they don't really want to pay for it. And Disney, if we remember when VHS. Tapes came out, Disney maintained. a stranglehold on that distribution by releasing, by, by creating scar scarcity.

So you would only get sleeping beauty. They would release it, it would be a huge fucking deal. Right? And all of a sudden here they were ready to let you like, hang out with Winnie Depo and Yoda. And, and this idea that people are going to love this and it's going to be,beneficial to your brands, to your ip, that people are gonna pay for this stuff is insanity.

Nobody's gonna pay for this, right? People might giggle you, Troy, you wouldn't pay a subscription to watch your fruit videos. and they're, they're, they're noticing right now that this is a huge money sink that has no consumer value. And if anything is IP destructive.

[00:24:16] Brian: Yeah, so like what I think is interesting is how this shift to the enterprise to me is leaving behind, they lost the consumer, like it's AI is polling. I saw an NBC news poll. It's polling below ice for popularity. It's still above the Democratic party, but it's below ice. And you know, I saw this viral clip that was going around in the CNN interview with this Contu Kentucky farmers and they refused to sell their farmland

to. 

[00:24:46] Alex: million, right?

[00:24:48] Brian: A big tech company. I think it was Google for $26 million. It was about like 10 x like what the price. And this thing's been watched like 13 million times. And, and they're, they basically told them, take your money and go stuff it, like this is our land. And they asked the woman, the, the matriarch is like 82 years old and they, she's like sitting there and the, the interviewer is asking her, you know, they say the data centers are going to bring a lot of jobs to the community.

I just saw her like eyes narrow and her lips purse. And I was like, Ooh, I've seen this with octogenarian before. This is not gonna go over well. And, it didn't go over well. she, she had said to them like, she called it a scam and, and, and basically that these 

people are liars. now that resonated, it seems.

She said, I say they're a liar and the truth isn't in them, 

[00:25:42] Alex: But Brian,

imagine this, right? Imagine this a product that's being pitched by the most dislikable people you ever like, like, you know, a, a, a, you know, band of like totally dislikable, billionaires. and the pitch is it's going to take your job, right? It's bad for the environment and also if we really reach, our goals, it might destroy the world.

Like who wants that? 

[00:26:10] Brian: but that's not a pitch problem. That's a product problem. The problem is the product itself is going to accrue power to the already powerful, and it's gonna be used as an extractive technology, and it's gonna be anti-worker. I mean, it's, there's no positive story to tell. This isn't a marketing

[00:26:26] Alex: I mean, it's, this is why we're getting, we're getting like union talk, more union talk in Silicon Valley than we ever had. You know, all the people that thought that they were, you know, special, a special class of employee are now seeing themselves as workers, but. But the, the, the thing is, the product is, is also not good.

Like if, if, if the product, because consumers like don't really care about the environment or about like the politics, if the product was as useful and as great for people as they say were, were,Then people would be flocking to it. And it's not a distribution problem because every fucking app you open is trying to pitch you on their AI tools.

Everybody's inundated with it. And so when, when we hear like Andreessen or, or, or, or whoever these folks are, you know, talk about the media being the ones to blame or consumers not fully understanding it. That's crazy talk. Meanwhile, yes, absolutely. Troy can build this app. This is where 


[00:27:17] Backlash and surveillance
---

[00:27:17] Troy: Yeah, I think we need to split this up into different, because AI is so all encompassing and, and, and, and, so sort of socially impactful, there's the overall governance, kind of geopolitical social air, which is really complicated. And, and I think that people are really nervous about that.

There's, you know, AI and media, which we just finished talking about, which I totally agree with you, Alex, is robbing media 

of 

important human signal that makes it, and

scarcity, that makes it wonderful. And then there's the rewiring. 

[00:27:53] Alex: And valuable 

[00:27:54] Troy: Yeah. 

[00:27:55] Alex: valuable. Right? 

[00:27:56] Troy: Then there's the kind of complete rewiring of all of the sort of software that has driven our interaction with so many things in the world.

And, you know, that starts on your phone and it, you know, continues to, to to, to enterprises. And I think that that's the, that part is not gonna slow at all. And I do think you'll see the kind of, you know, human impulse. Fight back in media, but like the idea that we can build our own interfaces, that the world of technology is open to a much broader group of people, that we are not gonna be hostage to SaaS companies.

That we can rethink how people interface with organizations, with government using software, you know, that we can clean up like decades of legacy code that prevent us from building good products. Like 

all of that is gonna, is, is gonna be a function of AI's proliferation. And that ain't going 

away. 

[00:28:56] Alex: No. I mean, 

[00:28:57] Brian: Okay, I'm I'm gonna go out to Lincoln Road and, and, and road test that with, some tourists. See how, see how that resonates. 

I 

[00:29:04] Troy: I haven't had, you didn't 

ask me to put it into a consumer message 

Brian, right. 

[00:29:09] Brian: Well, it's just not a winning, it's just not a winning message out there. And I, don't think, and that's why they're going to the enterprise is because like the boss class loves this stuff, 

[00:29:18] Alex: but imagine how, imagine how, imagine how it is, for, for people signing the chess, checks. It's, it's completely irresistible. This idea that you could create. Free content without having to deal with pesky creators, right? To generate free engagement that you fully control and can put ads against an infinite surface area.

The the problem is like none of these people understand culture and understand what attracts us to culture. Right. But meanwhile, yes, there is a, the consumer class is like completely. Going counterculture on that. And I expect like a lot of these platforms like YouTube and Reddit are going to invest a lot to filter out slop, because I think it's hurting those platform.

Meanwhile, the stuff that's happening with cloud code, with the perplexity computer stuff, with the open cloth stuff, right, of having these a, the, the agent. Future that they were talking about like nine months ago. Right. That is very real. And that will be, that will transform many, many people's lives. I think it's, it's, it's, 

[00:30:20] Brian: Yeah, so on the filtering, on the filtering thing, it's pretty obvious they're not gonna be able to filter out the bad stuff. They're gonna have to, they're gonna have to validate the quote unquote good stuff. And that, that is gonna lead to all kinds of facial recognition that to prove you're a human. So all the stuff that right wing people were terrified about, about vaccine passports, by the way.

What, what did, what happened to that? It turns out there wasn't an author, authoritarian plot, I guess. I don't know. all that stuff is going to come to, to roost, with this because we're, these are creating the problems that are going to be solved with mass surveillance. There's no way that this does not become that.

the, the reason that it's not popular is I think people sense that they sense this is not going in a direction that they would like. And by the way, they were never asked for. 

They never 

asked people are thinking, do you think people are thinking that far ahead? To me, I just feel like people don't. Really enjoy it at a, you know, yesterday I was on a Reddit forum for like a good 25 minutes where people were discussing whether, video of a mantis shrimp attacking a crab was AI or not.

[00:31:30] Alex: it was a long conversation and marine biologists had to come in and say, well, it wouldn't create these bubbles. So at the end of the day, it was agreed that it was probably ai, But I don't think that people really are thinking that far ahead. I don't think they're thinking about the environment.

I don't think they're thinking about the mass surveillance. I think they just look at this stuff and they chuckle and then they see two of it and they're like, okay, okay. And then they see three of it and they see their feed like filled with this stuff and say, this brings no value to me. I am done with this.

It feels like, you know, when, the internet was just like 80% rickrolling videos, we all had a chuckle, but at some point it was too much. And I think at this stage people are just like, stop. Tr trying to tell me how to respond to this email, stop showing me this junk, stop making me do the extra work of having to figure out is this real or not?

Like, why are we having to do all that? And they're saying, take all this stuff away from me. Don't charge me more for it. I don't want it. and, and that's, I think that's why they, because I think people will tolerate a lot for convenience. People will tolerate a lot for convenience. They will give away their privacy.

They will, they will, they will, they 

will turn a blind eye look at, look at DoorDash, look at Amazon. They will, they will turn a blind eye to all sorts of, of things that are happening, right? Like, I mean, but if the product is bad, if, if the reaction is like this, it's just people don't want this shit, 

[00:32:51] Brian: All right. AB is here. Let's, let's do some media stuff. need to do some media stuff. This

like tech stuff is, it's just too depressing to be honest with you. Um,

[00:33:01] Alex: it's also very exciting. I mean, ab missed the whole part where, where Troy, used used, his, his skills to build a very, a, media product. I would honestly pay for six months ago, I would've paid for this. I said, this is a really great 

[00:33:14] Troy: God bless you, Alex. God bless you, man.

[00:33:17] Alex: I love 


[00:33:17] UI Design on Trial
---

[00:33:19] Alex: you Troy you Troy the other one and the meta decision is 

[00:33:21] Troy: also 

important, Brian, 

[00:33:22] Brian: Oh God, we 

didn't even do the 

meta decision. 

So yeah, 

meta and YouTube were found liable for interestingly addictive design features. I think it's very telling that they got sued on a case that was modeled off the tobacco industry lawsuits. they claim individual harm from addictive aspects of social media.

I mean, the money awarded was pretty trivial, particularly when you're, these companies meta wants to be a $9 trillion company in five years. Why

not? 



[00:33:47] Brian: Um.

[00:33:49] Alex: the first of 

[00:33:49] Troy: right? But it's SIDESTEPPING two 30 and that's the big thing. 

[00:33:53] Alex: Yes, because it's going, it's going past it's not, it's not attacking them on content and it's attacking them on UI and ux, which is like, which is wild for me being a UI designer is having spent so much of my career trying to get people to pay attention, 

[00:34:09] Brian: Well, yeah. I mean, who knows If they go back and they start to look at all of the different design choices made, you could be at the Hague.

[00:34:17] Alex: mean, we had this conversation all the time. You interface design is and, and I had this conversation with my team sometimes. Interface design is manipulative, and we have to be careful and mindful of how we use these manipulative powers because you can prioritize certain things, hide certain things.

You can get people down a path. And I, I always talk to folks from my team that used to work at Facebook and Meta and said like, how could you do this? You know, because, but, but, but the, the outcome could be that, you know, in three years time, we don't have an infinite scrolling feed anymore. 

[00:34:53] Troy: Crazy. 

[00:34:54] Brian: Okay. That 

[00:34:55] Alex: be wild. 

[00:34:56] Troy: I 

would, I would, 

[00:34:57] Alex: are fucking, you're addicted. You're addicted

to X Brian, like, 

like, like you are a 

Yeah. Just see like, so what 

the audio listeners, his eye just twitched, what does 

[00:35:10] Brian: I like their 


[00:35:11] X Incentives and Guru Scams
---

[00:35:11] Brian: filtering. I like the filtering feature. I think the biggest problem on, on X right now, for me is it's the incentives that they've set on that platform. and people just respond to incentives. So I notice a lot of the Iran war coverage has gotten like really far into misinformation.

Usually at the hands of these like financial accounts like Walter Bloomberg, unusual Whales and all this, like they're just using a war as more engagement bait and then, you know, to, to basically sell something else. They all have like undisclosed, marketing, partnerships, and I think this is all part of people feeling like you're in such a ripoff economy.

Because I watched that Louis Thoreau, manosphere documentary, I don't know if you guys saw it. It was kind of b it wasn't great, but like, you know, there was like some B and C tier manosphere guys. But what was striking to me is they're all front businesses for some kind of multi-level marketing scheme be.

Whether it's crypto or whether it's some kind of like, course. And there's always, there's always something kind of scammy in the background 

[00:36:26] Alex: percent.

All, all the, all the gurus. It's all an extractive trick, right? I mean even, even all the kind of like self-help gurus that aren't manosphere, even huberman, right? Like, it, it's all like a, a, a, a scheme to sell you something and extract some, yeah, sure. Sure.


[00:36:43] Tucker vs The Economist
---

[00:36:43] Brian: one other thing on media, the economist editor in chief,Zani, Minton Betos Betos Minton, she went, she went into the octagon with Tucker Carlson. and I mean, I give the Economist a lot of credit for using its live show to be news year. not gonna kill them for platforming Tucker Carlson.

He's like, I don't know. What are his, what are his OTs of being like the next president of the United States? I mean, 

[00:37:09] Alex: No, 

[00:37:09] Brian: of the question honestly. 

[00:37:11] Alex: that would be hard. Just to hear his voice more would be difficult.

[00:37:14] Brian: the, but like what was really striking there is just the different styles of like institutional media and whatever they're calling this new media world. Totally. D. And the institutional media has to learn how to compete on that level. CNN is doing this ridiculous thing that I hope they'll stop very soon, where they're having, like Jake Tapper do a show from his office with like a giant podcast mic, and they're putting giant mics around, and you can imagine how this happens.

Someone in a meeting was like, oh, well, let's, let's take on the aesthetics and trappings of, of the podcast world. Meanwhile, the podcast world has pivoted to these very boring and dull like set designs with two ferns. And so they're going in an opposite direction. And I think both are missing the point, like what is, it's not about the, the aesthetics of, of UGC.

[00:38:16] Alex: I think that that is winning in the, in the marketplace. we agree. shall we move on to ab. 

[00:38:21] Brian: Yeah, AB welcome. 


[00:38:24] Vox Podcast Sale
---

[00:38:26] Brian: Let's talk Vox Media. So, Vox Media, is not, selling its podcast business. Semaphore reported that, it tried to sell its podcast network. Then it was like, Hey, you know, if you want, we'll sell you the whole thing. We'll sell you pieces, not, not a, not a positive sign there.

what, what is the value of that kind of business as, and we've given it a lot of credit, and I think it deserves it as it is adopted more of being, a talent business. Those are, those are different types of businesses, and the individual talent, whether it's Carish Swisher, or Scott Galloway, are obviously very valuable.

I'm not sure if the network is as valuable. 

[00:39:09] Blake: I mean, I think there's been a bunch of these recent podcast deals. I think they're all a little bit different. in that sometimes they're around like a brand that's not just a person, but more of like a genre. and the valuations can vary widely because sometimes the investor or who ever buying it is getting the benefit of longer term guarantee revenue deals with like SiriusXM where Sirius says, Hey, we'll sell your ads and we'll guarantee this level of placement as long as you keep driving the audience.

I think with the Vox one, I think people saw it as like, okay, if we unplug these different shows from Vox, like what are we actually gonna get? I think and the, the Kara Swisher and the Scott Galloway podcast has probably weighted to most of the advertising revenue for that podcast network. And so I think it's a little bit tough.

Like they have a bunch of other, I think they probably have like 10 other podcast brands, but I think as people looked at that, they were trying to figure out what are we actually gonna get in terms of valuation. I think it's like normal media valuations. Like it's, it's like you're hoping the audience continues to show up and there's some growth there.

I think where you've seen higher valuations is an opportunity around a genre to build other things. So an app, other ways to monetize the audience, you know, live events, things like that. But I, I don't think Kara and Scott were gonna give up that part of their business. I think their, what Vox was selling was primarily the audio product. 

[00:40:39] Brian: Mm, try it. 

[00:40:40] Troy: There were a fir few early deals that AB referenced that were part of the frothiness of early podcasting. I think that Kara and, and, and those are, you know, I think outliers now. I think if you're buying a podcast business, it is a talent management business and an ad network, and I think there's value in that because in order to pay your guarantees to your talent, you have to have predictable revenue, momentum relationships, know how to bundle the products and all of that.

I think there's probably some concern in the case of the Vox Media podcast network. What happens when you carve that out of the media brand and the rest of media publishing and presumably where to where does the right to use the, you, you, you know, use the brand and the IP go? Can you still do events?

How do you cross promote? I mean, I think it's a. It's kind of a complex relationship. That said, I, you know, there, there is good reason that I think someone would buy, you know, a podcasting business anchored by, you know, some of the best talent in, in, in podcasting. And I also think inevitably it's a.

It's a, it's a game of concentration where a big podcast like Pivot, which is Scott and Kara's podcast I think that that, that in, in podcasting, you know, there's always gonna be one that's responsible for a huge percentage of your distribution. So, you know, I don't think it's over by the way. I think that Jim Ko, the CEO of Ox has to kind of figure out what's next for that company you know, he is got investors that want some type of outcome and he is got Penske invested in it, I think about 20 points of the company, and he's been working on it for a long time.

I suspect you'll see 

a transaction in the future and

that this is just, that this reporting isn't complete. 

[00:42:31] Alex: Have we have we heard any, and maybe it's AB might know some of that, but have we heard any of the numbers that we're throwing around or who some of the potential buyers are? It's really hard for. 

[00:42:40] Troy: Oh, 

I, yeah, I mean, I know, but I can't talk about it. 

[00:42:43] Brian: Oh, that's no fun.

This is bullshit. 

[00:42:46] Blake: The good the The good podcast deal that was really interesting is when Fox bought Red Seat Ventures and they effectively got back like the whole squad of people that got kicked off Fox for one reason or another, like Bill O'Reilly, right? So like that was a really interesting deal because they basically brought back, and they're not necessarily gonna go on Fox News, but they tapped into that revenue.

It's all probably the same advertisers. So there's a lot of synergy there. But that was like, I think one of the more interesting podcast deals that it did get some attention. But I think the reality there is they brought back some of these people that. May not show up on TV as much anymore, but it have the same audience.

Right. It's a little bit more fringe. and so they got back like me, Kelly, like all the people that used to be on Fox, they brought 'em back into the ecosystem basically through 

a different door. 

[00:43:38] Alex: And do we know if net, I mean, is, is, is like, could Netflix be one of the bars like and Netflix has been moving into that space. It's just like a cheap way to make content. 

[00:43:47] Troy: Sure. The strategic, 

[00:43:49] Alex: I wish we 

[00:43:49] Blake: I mean, they can 

just, 

[00:43:51] Alex: Troy. 

[00:43:51] Troy: that was a tragedy. 

Beautiful. 

[00:43:54] Alex: It was a 

[00:43:54] Brian: tragedy.Hey, you had that.


[00:43:56] Podcast Aesthetics and Clipping
---

[00:43:56] Blake: I think this thing that surprises me, to your point, Brian, in terms of the formats, is like Joe Rogan, whatever number, you know, top, top five podcasts in the world. It's like very few people copy the way that he sits. And most of the, like most of the video is like. Between the two firms, which is awkward, right?

It's like sitting like you see the person's full body, like the microphones are there. Where I'm surprised most people.

[00:44:23] Alex: Yeah.

[00:44:23] Brian: think this, this shift from in the podcast aesthetic to like anonymous sets is strange and misplaced, but

[00:44:33] Alex: I think a lot of that, a lot of that comes from, it's, it's important when you look at, at the podcast economy to understand how important clipping is of it, part of it. and a lot of these are recorded to be broadcast on YouTube at 16 by nine and then clipped on Instagram. In portrait mode. And so when you're sitting down, or you have a further back shot, these can be cut differently and they work better clipped.

I think that there's something, there

[00:45:02] Brian: We have to up our clips game. I, I've been, I've been, I've been. 


[00:45:05] LinkedIn and Social CRM
---

[00:45:05] Brian: I've been trying to, I, I've recommitted to LinkedIn. 

[00:45:09] Alex: Wow. 

[00:45:10] Brian: AB gave, ab gave me grief. 'cause I don't have the, like, premium, like literally LinkedIn. Look, I, I know people like, it's the most unusable product. I, I, I'm just shocked at how bad the product is.

Like, I mean, it makes Microsoft teams look like Troy's pimp. Like it is horrific. Like it's a horrific product 

[00:45:34] Troy: The reason it's a horrific product isn't the product actually. It's like that saying, it's not the band I hate, it's their fans. the, the problem with LinkedIn is all of the guck and nonsense and crap that comes from the professional class trying to 

market 

themselves. It's disgusted. 

[00:45:48] Alex: you, it, it, 

[00:45:49] Brian: something deeper there. 

[00:45:50] Alex: I'm sorry, 

Troy, that no longer counts. These companies through the algorithm and the user experience have full control over the incentive of, of, of, of their user base. They're in full control. So, 

[00:46:07] Troy: This product's Genesis is professional updates, Alex. 

[00:46:10] Alex: Sure. But like, you know, like I think at 

some point, like I, I think at some point you can do, there's so many parts of this product that are badly designed and I, I should, some folks that were on my team are, are, are working at LinkedIn now, so maybe they'll

hear me, but like, yeah. Yeah. I mean, do you have a, do you have a concrete list of grievances because, you know, if you 

[00:46:31] Brian: It's an endless list of grievances. I literally, I can't even use the desktop. I've talked with

LinkedIn about this. I can't use the desktop

version. I can only use the app. I can't get this, premium account. It won't let me. It's like, oops,

[00:46:44] Alex: My man, I know you don't want to use perplexity computer, but one of the examples I saw somebody make was a CRM. That that, checked his Gmail, and his LinkedIn, and then within a single interface allowed him to manage his entire LinkedIn communication. It's here. 

[00:47:01] Brian: Look, I want to commit to it. I want to try to use it. my profile views are way up. I don't know what that means, but 

[00:47:08] Alex: Nice.

[00:47:08] Troy: You need my daughter to build

you a social CRM Brian. 

[00:47:12] Alex: you're a influencer. 

[00:47:13] Brian: Okay. where do you wanna go next, Troy? I mean, I can go with a lot. We've got a lot of stuff 

[00:47:17] Troy: We do, 

we do. I mean, 


[00:47:19] Wired Subscriptions and Tech Scrutiny
---

[00:47:19] Troy: you made a point about how, Wired's doing a nice job. 

That's 

an 

interesting conversation, 

[00:47:24] Brian: I do. I mean, they got a good, they got a nice, 

little 

profile. And I think Wired is an interesting, it's at an interesting inflection point because, you know, Katie Drummond has remade it, into a check on, on Tech Power. And there's a, there's a lot of like old heads who don't like this, and particularly people who have a vested interest in, in marketing their technology, because they just want to be fond over.

it's a massive power center. It deserves scrutiny and I think Wired has done a really nice job and it's helping them to shift this business to being, subscription first. And I think that's a much better place than relying on an events or conference hustle where you're basically. You're basically in bed with the people you're covering.

I mean, you depend on them the end of the day and you can't be as much a check on power. I mean, Kara Swisher pulled it off as best as, as anyone has, and I don't think it would be possible today. She couldn't have have been as critical as she was of the tech industry and run a massive tech conference Today, the tech people will just make their own conferences or they would just 

[00:48:35] Troy: Yeah. You know, it's interesting to contrast it with the Verge 

because, 

[00:48:40] Brian: which is down 85% in 

[00:48:42] Troy: know, it's, it's, you know, being. You know, that kind of whatever the evolution of a tech site is isn't a subscription proposition being real critical news voice on tech and society, I think is, and I, you know, I just would contrast wired with, you know, Neely Patel's kind of sanctimonious and, how it's become a bit of a parody of itself.

And I, I, I think that, it's really smart what, what Wired has done because it's, it's essential for somebody. And when it's essential for somebody and when it's real reporting And a critical perspective, you can build a subscription business. And that feels smart to me.

And if you look at their headlines just in the last couple of hours, I'm just looking at my pimp, the, you know, arm, CEO insists the market needs his new CPU. It could piss everyone off and oral's real war with itself. You know why ICE is allowed to impersonate law enforcement, the government's shittiest website, like they're, they're out there fighting I think that it appeals to people. 

[00:49:45] Brian: Yeah, 

there's a place for that. 


[00:49:46] Atlantic Cruise Events
---

[00:49:51] Brian: The Atlantic is setting sale. The pivot to events has now gone to sea. the Atlantic has a pretty interesting deal with, Seaborn Cruise Line. I think that's an upscale one. It's not Carnival. they're gonna, the Atlantic is gonna program events on cruise ships. They're also doing a 12 day cruise, which sounds ex, that sounds a lot, like, a lot, to be honest with you, from Montreal to Boston.

I would've thought you could get there a lot quicker, but, they, they're tying it into their subscriptions. what, this is kind 

[00:50:20] Troy: What a great idea. 

[00:50:22] Brian: isn't it? 

[00:50:22] Troy: idea. I love this idea. 

[00:50:24] Brian: What makes it great? 

[00:50:26] Troy: I mean, if you have a powerful media brand that actually is a congregation point for a community and they wanna talk about shit, like 

seemingly the, you know, the 

Atlantic audience does throw 'em on a boat. I mean, I, I kind 

of 

would go to that. 

[00:50:39] Brian: Yeah. 

[00:50:39] Troy: I think it's great. 12 days is 

a lot though. 12 days, 

you know, you 

could 

[00:50:44] Brian: I, I don't know if Nick Thompson, it's for their anniversary. I don't know if Nick Thompson's gonna do it because 

he's like a big runner. So I don't know 

if he's gonna be 

[00:50:51] Troy: no, they'll just helicopter him in for like two days and then take him out.

[00:50:55] Blake: It is interesting on this, on this 12 day cruise, they don't talk about any of the content. I dunno, maybe there's a different page that I'm missing, but it's just about the, 

it's kinda weird. 

[00:51:06] Brian: I mean, I think w they'll, they'll end up programming it, but I think what's what, to me, like, what I like about it is like the Atlantic blew up. Its like events business a little bit early on, when Lorraine Powell jobs, like took, took it over and, you know, pushing off all of the organizing stuff to like, to, to a cruise line or something like this makes a ton of sense.

because if you want to be in that business, you're gonna be in that business hardcore. I mean, look, I didn't get the meats and cheeses right? Like, there's a lot of details in the events business that, are different, you know, so good for 

them. 

I'm not gonna be of,

[00:51:44] Troy: you should come, we'll go together. 


[00:51:45] Zombie Franchises and Propaganda Ads
---

[00:51:46] Troy: What did you think of the, sports Illustrated swimsuit issue? 

[00:51:48] Brian: Well, I mean, it's 62 years old now. it's obviously lost. Its, staying power. it's a very strange, franchise now. I mean, I remember it as a kid. My mailman would eagerly thumb through it by the time I got it, my mother would then discover it and, she complained actually to Sports Illustrator canceled my subscription.

I mean, Al McPherson launched her career off that. I mean, a lot of famous people did. now they're, they're, they're trying to take a weird, I guess it's not weird, but they have like Bethany Frankl and, and, and whatnot. I guess posing, I'm not sure what to call it in there. I don't know. Tough, tough franchise to pull off.

I think that these things should, like, it's okay to like let things go. Isn't 

it? 

[00:52:32] Troy: drop it? 

[00:52:33] Brian: Like, does, do things have to last forever? Like, am I going to die with the 30 under 

30 continuing? 

[00:52:40] Troy: Yep. You are. 

But what did you think of the strategy of this one? Did you like that they put Bethany Frankel in there and some other sort of, 

unexpected, models? 

[00:52:48] Brian: I don't think anything of,

the strategy. I think it's like a zombie franchise that is in extraction, phase of its life. So whatever works, it will never, it will never return to when it was like a cultural touchstone. And, at least for me, like that's like, that's kind of like, it's a little bit sad. And so I think that's with a lot of like media there, it's like.

Trying to mine these old franchises that have completely lost their relevance. I mean is

[00:53:20] Troy: Well, speaking of surreal media moments, Brian, I, I was surprised to see a advertisement on Fox News for the Kids' Guide to President Trump, which is a 

print 

publication that you can order. It's a gift bundle and you scan 

it 

on the commercial, you 

[00:53:41] Brian: It's more than a print 

[00:53:42] Troy: and 

yeah, it's a way of life. It's a mindset.

and I sus, I don't know what comes in the bundle, but I suspect that they're profiling your parents and or your parents are obviously ordering it 'cause or your grandparents are ordering it because they're watching Fox News. But,the Golden Age of America Edition is out now. what really was some Alex called it like full North Korean shit. But it is bizarre to see the government,using media, like this. It's so shameless and so tacky. 

[00:54:16] Brian: Yeah. Well, 

[00:54:18] Blake: It's like a coloring, coloring book. You get to color in the Iran targets. This is, so is this sponsored by the government or This is a 

[00:54:25] Brian: no, it's not spons. I mean, it's actually 

possible, but I don't think it is. I did, did you see the the humanoid robot at the, the White House yesterday with Melania? It was a great, it was the first time a humanoid robot, at least known, at least in public, has publicly appeared at the White House.

And this humanoid robot is name is Plato and the robot's gonna replace teachers. So there's that. I'm sure that will be very popular. 


[00:54:54] Reality TV Loses to UGC
---

[00:54:54] Brian: final thing is reality TV New York Times reports that the number of unscripted series has plummeted by a third since 2022. This is no surprise reality TV has lost to UGC.

You can just stream reality TV now. I mean, you don't need to watch The Simple Life with Paris Hilton and Nicole Richie. is sort of an inevitable, I guess we're just seeing the end of a lot of these, these, these old franchises and, and, shtick from media's past. 

[00:55:25] Troy: I wasn't 

a big fan. 

[00:55:27] Brian: rip? You weren't a big 

[00:55:29] Troy: those. 

[00:55:29] Brian: tv. 

[00:55:30] Troy: No, those 

dating ones have survived. Right. 

Love 

Island. They've done 

[00:55:35] Brian: okay. Yeah, but The Bachelorette I think is. Is, is 

not is not doing well. all right. Should we do good product? 

[00:55:42] Troy: You know, just quickly related to the reality thing. You remember when, food Network was absolutely the juggernaut in cable television and now you remember the guy who hosted, iron Chef, what's his name? Alton Alton 

Brown is now, is now, 

making really good, YouTube content. 

You know, 

it's the world changed. 

[00:56:03] Brian: Oh, really? 

he was like one of those like science guys. He was 

[00:56:05] Troy: He's a sense,

[00:56:06] Brian: He 

had a shtick.

That's the thing. It, you need to niche down. One of the things I've noticed on, Instagram is I get placed into all kinds of weird segments, and I'm in a segment of like, you're. Married to, or part of like a Balkan Eastern European world.

And so it's all this thing, it's like, oh, you know, like an Eastern European parent does all of these things. And like there's, there's entire set of influencers that are, are focused on like Balkan content, you know, in English, right? Like there's like second generation and then there's now like American or just English speaking non Serbian influencers who are in, I get dumped into this.

They're like living in Belgrade and, and like, and doing the, like whispering into a little microphone about like things around Belgrade. And it's more competitive in pretty much every field. 

I think right 

[00:57:03] Troy: Totally. 

[00:57:04] Brian: basically 

One final thing. 


[00:57:06] MarketBeat Subscription Arbitrage
---

[00:57:06] Brian: So, there's this company Market Beat. Do you know it, Troy? Oh, it's, it's a good company. it's based outta Sioux Falls, South Dakota. it's run by this guy Matt Paulson. He's a, he's a prolific, ex guy. I like him. He's, he's very opinionated and he, I don't wanna say shameless, but like, he has a playbook and he runs it and Market Beat is one of these fin pubs and they're.

I don't know how I would describe it. Like they basically, it's, it's all, it's it's ads and subscriptions, but they buy a ton of, of traffic and then they're able to, I mean, I call it arbitrage, but AB doesn't, like when I call it arbitrage, wildly profitable. They're like a $50 million business, like 15 or 50% margins.

you know, we talk a lot about these 

dying media businesses. 

This guy's in Sioux Falls, they're selling like stock 

tips and, and and whatnot. 

[00:58:04] Troy: Oh yeah. That's been a good 

business forever. 

[00:58:07] Brian: Yeah.

I mean, it was a good business in the original newsletter. You would like 

print them out 

and like send them, 

[00:58:14] Troy: I mean, even 

when, uh, and, and Fisher Investments famously had theirs that grew out of advertisements in Forbes, that 

became a huge financial management company. 

[00:58:25] Brian: AB break down this business model. Is this like something that like, regular media can learn from? Because this is like a, this is an excerpt of media, 

[00:58:34] Blake: So the reason why I think it's so valuable in the subscription space, 'cause I was looking at the market beat subscription is like two 50 a year, right? And so there's always been people investing under their personal account. I think it got more prolific with like Robinhood with younger people doing it.

But if you're gonna invest $10,000 in the company and and hope for it to double, why wouldn't you buy a subscription? So a lot of it is the ARP stuff. 'cause you'll see the display ad that says, Hey, you know, there's, here's the five stocks that Warren Buffett is investing in and he is not telling you about, or something like that.

There's all these like simple funnels. Are disguised as like alpha, you know, in terms of like giving you a market edge? I think a lot of people turn on the subscriptions and forget about it. Most of the data that these platforms get is free to access, like you can find it on Yahoo Finance or Google Finance, but there's a, there's a few companies in this space that have done pretty well where they got hung up before.

So like when the market goes up, it basically pulls forward a lot of the subscription revenue, right? So it's like when the market goes up, more people are investing, more people buy these subscriptions and then when it goes down or it's not doing well, people cancel. And so I think market beats just done well.

Like you said, it's in a small town, they have a small team. It's not hard to produce this content 'cause there's like, you're not having geniuses ride it. You're just talking about the companies and, and giving a different perspective. And no one has ever graded on their picks. They might say they are, but.

They're just talking about 10 different companies a day. So there's a bunch of companies in this space. I think what gets interesting is there's some smaller ones that are doing interesting things with sort of AI coded tools that either tie into your current portfolio or basically look at the data in different ways.

And I think it's the e one of the easiest places to pick up consumer subscriptions because people 

[01:00:27] Troy: Todd, that's a great point AB and I think that the, the real key to this business is if your LTVs based on the two 50 and retention rate are high enough, you can pay to buy subscribers. And you can't do that in most 

media businesses. 'cause subscription is, you know, under a hundred dollars a year. 

[01:00:48] Brian: So this might be outdated, but this is from November. 

in 2025, the company has 20 full-time employees and 10 freelancers compared to Hearst. I mean, these are, this is where the money is in, in these businesses like media. Yeah. It's still valuable if you do this kind of stuff, for sure. And I, he, he's on like tons of podcasts.

He went on this podcast, moneywise, have you ever listened to Moneywise? Great podcast concept. Sam Par, who founded The Hustle now has Hampton, which is a private community for entrepreneurs. He's like, you know, he came into money and he's like, I never had money. I didn't think about it. Nobody talks about it.

And so the whole thing is basically rich people who didn't start out rich talking about talking like openly about how much they're worth and how they spend their money, how they invest it and everything. Great concept. People love to hear that kind of stuff. but he was on, on it talking about, his, his setup.

And he's on a lot of different, podcasts. interesting, interesting character. Good for them. I mean, it stands in contrast to a lot of these other businesses that are, you know, their revenue per employee is just incredibly low. And I still think that that is like the, the it, I don't know what the definition of new media is, but I know that you need a high revenue per employee.

Is that, is that a bad me? like benchmark to use maybe. 

[01:02:15] Blake: I think it's a perfect one, but the, the problem is a lot of these media companies are facing, they don't wanna, they. Don't want those, they don't wanna guide their business by it. 'cause it's, it's a tough metric. I think the nice thing about this space specifically too is that the larger financial publications view it as kind of icky in terms of talking about like, stock picking.

And so there's, you're never worried about the Wall Street Journal coming and taking your business because they're just not, they don't, they want, they don't wanna get into this business.

[01:02:44] Brian: No, it's too sketchy, right? 

[01:02:46] Blake: Yeah. But no, I think revenue per, I mean, Troy, you, you guys both ran media companies, so I think revenue per employee is a, is a good metric,

[01:02:53] Brian: think these, these, a lot of these companies like still, it just takes too many people to do, to create too little value in a lot of these companies. I was amazed, you know, S four. 6,500 employees for a $250 million market cap company. This is on the agency side, right? Like

how's that work? 

[01:03:14] Troy: Can we go to good product now? Brian? 

run. 


[01:03:17] Good Product
---

​

[01:03:20] Troy: obviously this is influenced by the discussion we had early on. We are moving into a high leverage world. And that means your responsibility as an individual is to create that million dollar per head media company or to create that Sioux Falls $50 million company.

These, these are high leverage companies and increasingly there's gonna be lots of jobs and lots of opportunities for people that use new tech to create maximum leverage. And that's like, how many tokens did you use today? And I used a lot of tokens. And I think that, you know, your, your ability to put the machines to work for you, make you a high leverage person.

So to me, the good product and the revelation of the week for me is just how powerful all this five coating stuff is, and that we're on the precipice of a very new way of thinking about. Personal productivity about software, about SaaS businesses, about the relationship between the people with the ideas, the product people connected to the business and, and the, the people that make it, the, the technologists.

And I think it's gonna move both ways. I think increasingly technologists are gonna become more product planning and that product people are gonna get deeper and deeper into technology, and we're gonna completely reconsider the lines between these groups. So that's, that's the other thing. But I would say that my good product this week, Brian, is an ode to eating at the bar.

I don't know if I've highlighted that before. It's one of my favorite things to do and I did it. Yesterday or day before at Mineta Tavern, I had, their, I guess, famous hamburger at the bar at Mineta. And, you know, Mineta's obviously an institution at this point, and the bartenders are, you know, old fashiony.

You know, they're, you know, they, they know how to chat. they know how to make a martini and they know how to take care of you. they make the atmosphere. The great thing about eating at the bar with other people is that you don't have to focus on your guest the whole time, right? You can talk to the bartender, you can talk to the person on your left hand, you can talk to your 

guests.

And I think that makes for a good social formula. 

Eating at the It also is one way to get out of the, the ridiculousness, that you need to make a reservation like two 

[01:05:34] Brian: months in advance to have dinner in New York City. It's 

[01:05:37] Troy: Oh yeah, you if for Mineta you have to go 

in at five o'clock to get a spot at the bar. 'cause it's really hard to get a reservation. 

[01:05:45] Brian: Like what kinda weirdo like decides where they're gonna have dinner two months in advance. Strange behavior. 

I just don't eat at those places. All right, let's leave it there. Thanks guys.


[01:05:56] Outro
---

[01:05:56] Troy: That's it for this episode of people versus algorithms where each week we uncover patterns shaping media culture and technology. Big thanks as always to our producer, Vanja Arsenov. She always makes us a little clearer and more understandable and we appreciate her very, very much. If you're enjoying these conversations, we'd love for you to leave us a review.

It helps us get the word out and keeps our community growing. Remember, you can find People vs. Algorithms on Apple Podcasts, on Spotify, and now on YouTube. Thanks for listening and we'll see you again next week.





