PvA S4E159
===

​


[00:00:01] Open
---

[00:00:01] Troy: Well, Brian, I was, I'm really looking forward to the episode. I thought we have some really meaty topics to dive into, and at first I was, I was skeptical about talking about the New York Times again, but, and I actually thought about it a bit and, and realized that there's, there's more to talk about.

[00:00:17] Brian: Okay. Well let's get, let's get into it. 

​


[00:00:29] Welcome
---

[00:00:29] Brian: Let's get into people versus algorithms. show about media, technology, culture. Troy Young, joining us back from his riyad. Was it a Riyad you were at 

in

Morocco? 

[00:00:40] Alex: we add comedy festival.

[00:00:42] Troy: The problem with that we had actually is the, the exit was not particularly good because we got violently ill coming outta Morocco, 

[00:00:51] Brian: Really? 

[00:00:52] Troy: my wife more than I did. Yeah. She, she got, a bad kind of stomach thing.

[00:00:58] Brian: Do, do go into detail for sure.

[00:01:00] Alex: Yeah. 

[00:01:01] Brian: Well, that's unfortunate, but I'm glad that you were able to make it back safe and sound. and Alex Schleifer joining us, from his compound. 

[00:01:08] Alex: Thank you. I'm here.

[00:01:10] Brian: All right, so I wanna talk about a bunch, let's talk about a bunch of things. I want to talk about, you know, the New York Times as the exception to the rule in the media business at agencies. test the Cockroach theory. I'll get into that. the rise of Momani and Fuentes. I know I'm gonna try to make a connection between the two and

[00:01:29] Alex: Yeah. Interesting. How

[00:01:30] Brian: trigger,

[00:01:31] Alex: that one up? Yeah.

[00:01:32] Brian: a lot of people.

[00:01:33] Alex: I think everyone, everyone will be triggered.

[00:01:35] Brian: yeah, that's the ideal in the information space and also a little ai, bubble check. before we get into, banker Corner with ab. Does that sound good? 


[00:01:46] New York Mayoral Election
---

[00:01:46] Brian: So let's start with, you know, there was a big mayor election that, I think like the eyes of the nation, if not the world were on, and, the result was not completely surprising.

Stephen Minor, won as the Miami Beach Mayor. He defeated Deborah Rosen Gonzalez. but no, I'm talking about, uh, Zoan mom, Donny, who defeated Andrew Cuomo and, a great cameo honestly, by Curtis Lewa. A a, a terrific 1980s character. Who had an unlikely sort of comeback, and hopefully he will get a podcast out of this.

[00:02:25] Alex: but good job, Curtis. He had the line of the campaign against Andrew Cuomo. Which was 

[00:02:32] Brian: he, he said that Cuomo was done and that he was, slapping fannies and killing grannies.

[00:02:38] Alex: Oh man.

[00:02:42] Brian: I told you, it's a good line. This is what you gotta do to be 

memorable. 

[00:02:46] Alex: get, yeah. This guy needs, yeah,

[00:02:49] Brian: It is a podcast, I'm telling you, like, look, keep your head on a swivel,Hassan Piker, whoever that guy is. I don't really know his work. You know him better than I do, Alex. let's talk about Momani and just, I, I just want to talk, this is not a politics podcast, but I do think that it is, you know, something that is noteworthy in the culture, really.

Momani, clearly, he's a generational communicator, and his message absolutely resonated. And to me, what we're seeing in both of these political parties is this is the inevitable march to the populous fringes. Now, I've been very clear on this. When you open the populism. Tinderbox, it's gonna explode on you.

And you're seeing that on the right where, there is an ongoing civil war that's

happening over the position of Nick Fuentes, who we've, who we've talked about

on this podcast, because he is also a really good communicator. many of the, the points that he's communicating are, are a little vile, in my view,

but, I think that's why, they're trying to put him back in a box.

And the problem is once you open.

Once you open, the aperture to these kind of just asking questions, you're gonna get, particularly in this immediate environment you're gonna get it rewards people who go to the extremes and who are really good at it. And he is, he is one of them. I think ani in some ways, is, you know, a Trumpy like figure of, of the left in that he is saying what a lot of people feel is the quiet part out loud.

And it is resonating with lots of people. so it'll be interesting to see what happens to, to New York City, but I think that as we get flooded with evermore information, some synthetic, some real we'll end up retreating in many ways to extremely simple narratives that make sense of the world. I think Trump did that.

He had really, he just hammered home, build the wall. He hammered a home, make America great again. And Momani just kept going after the affordability, issue and,

it resonated. Troy, are you preparing for, the means of

production to be seized in Brooklyn? 

[00:05:06] Troy: How are the tax, increases

gonna manifest those only gonna hit like the billionaire class or where, where's that gonna, where's that gonna hit 

[00:05:15] Alex: Why are you on? No, because you're

leaving the city, right? 

[00:05:17] Brian: Yeah, I like that the billionaires all then lined up to be

like, how can I, how can I help? They did the

they just went right into, how can I help? It's like, we're leaving. We're leaving. It's like, okay, I'm not

leaving.

[00:05:28] Troy: I mean, in some ways, you know, he did a, AMI did a great job, but he had it easy. Don't you think I mean, Cuomo's a schmuck 

[00:05:36] Brian: Okay. But

he came, he that is, that is a political dynasty that he

ended, that ended, 

[00:05:43] Alex: yeah. Also, I

mean, I, I think if you look at him on, on

paper, like you know, he's new, he's all fresh, he's young, you know, he is an immigrant, he's a Muslim. Like, you know, on paper, these are not things that, you know,direct you towards a win immediately. he's very charismatic and a great communicator.

And I think honestly, like people are hearing the message, 

[00:06:03] Troy: you know, his is the new church and, and, and I, I agree with you, Brian, that there is a connection between Zoran and Nick and that they're, they're really good populous communicators and they're both fluent in, you know, like grammar of, of modern communication platforms and, and, and they, and I think they both succeed just like Trump succeeds when you, when you bring kind of moral clarity to that com complexity.

And, and, and it was the most interesting part, was the sort of connection. Between like social and political movements. This was Man's, campaign was a party. 

[00:06:41] Brian: The New York Times had a great, what, what they

call conceptual scoop, lined up for this, which tried to, to connect,

the rise of momani to an antidote to Gen Z loneliness. And that like he had a very analog style campaign and getting

people out and sort of

you know, it's one of those things where

it's, I can imagine the pitch, like as an editor, I'd be like,

oh my God, this is amazing.

This'll do

[00:07:05] Alex: The branding was

really, I mean, I think people are going

to try to

[00:07:09] Brian: Oh, yeah. As the graphic

design 

[00:07:10] Alex: the graphic design was really good, but I mean, obviously

the, the guy has taste right. The guy is smart, the guy is charismatic, and 

[00:07:17] Troy: He can dance through Alex.

[00:07:19] Alex: Like, yeah, exactly. You want him at a party. And I think that the, the aesthetics of who we look at in a leader have changed, the, the narrative around like, yeah, people are struggling even though we're seeing all this wealth around us.

Like, we're like, you know, meanwhile there's like. People, you know, sending their girlfriends into space or renting out Venice, of course that populous message is going to work. And then I think the, the big thing with all these, you know, whether it's a Fuentes or even a Trump, or it's like, you kind of believe they mean what they say.

So if you agree with the mess, you know what I mean? Like a lot of these other guys, you just don't, like, you can't, I can't, I couldn't trust anything the other guy was saying.

[00:07:59] Brian: it's a bad time to be a phony,

[00:08:01] Troy: and I think that there's a new generation that votes kind of vibes and values over sort of old fashioned economic arguments of progress and, and kind of, you know, liberalist views of kind of right and wrong according to. sacred economic, you know, textbook about, you know, how things ought to be done and how, you know, young, liberal, sort of aspirational next generation leaders are just gonna fuck the economy up

and people just disregarded it.

[00:08:31] Brian: Yeah, and I, one, one fact on that, 'cause I think a lot of times these things are thought of in the class, sort of economic, class war, but like Momani did best with people with advanced degrees or a college degree.

[00:08:46] Alex: or women,

[00:08:47] Brian: Women in particular. I think this is like an emerging narrative that will be interesting.

I mean, we touched upon the great feminization debate, and, 

you know, 

[00:08:57] Alex: out women are kind of pissed off. 

[00:08:59] Brian: it, it would seem so, yeah. And so, so we've got, we've got Momani and Momani also is very popular with people that just moved to New York City. 85 per, he won

85% of the, people who have been living in New York

City less than five years If you, if you were a quote unquote native New Yorker,

which usually means you were boarding queens, he did the worst. It was 38%. Even, even those of us who, who 10 years plus. I

guess I'm like 25 years in New York now, still not a native New Yorker. 

[00:09:31] Alex: yeah. Cuomo won like

97% of the people who wear shirts that have a different colored collar to their shirt. Apparently that's what my

data says. Have you, did I ever share my,

I have a hypothesis about, about why? Like people are tracking towards authenticity so much and whether it's like a superpower. I think people have just become maybe better at, at tracking authenticity.

It used to be that like, we will watch TV and, and believe what people

say, but I think now when you watch a late night

show, you look at this conversation and it makes you feel really uncomfortable. and I think that it's,

it's because people are just so exposed

to so many more videos of people behaving in so many ways that they're training

some sort of radar.

You know, it kind of reminds me of

like in, in 2003, like the before 2003, everybody that was winning a poker

tournament, were just these old dudes that would sit in rooms And play poker over and over again. Then in 2003, this guy comes in, called Chris Moneymaker, that's his name, and he wins the International Poker tour, and he wasn't.

He was an online gambler. He was an online

poker player, and the thing that I

changed is that these guys would be just playing eight games at a time, seven hours a day. And so by the time they got to the poker tour, they had played a million hands. And I think people are experiencing so much content

from so many people on TikTok, like they're analyzing faces and

stuff like that They've become like very attuned to like, at least vibes of people And I think, The, the, the kind of artifice of like celebrity or politician has completely broken apart in this world the same way that it did when all of a sudden, you know, it went from

being from radio to TV and Nixon looked like, like people, like started

noticing ticks about Nixon. I think now we're

just like, we're seeing hundreds of faces a day reacting to all sorts

of different things, not 

acting. You know, 

[00:11:25] Brian: I think, that's actually what, that's actually why. That's a great

point. And I think that's actually why, I don't know if Gavin

Newsom is the answer.

Just 'cause he 

is, he's too good at the regular, the old game.

He's trying to adapt his game. But like he's too, he's too much outta central casting 

for 

[00:11:41] Alex: you you, kind of try to think like, is he like this at home? and You think

he's not like this at home. He can't be.

right.

[00:11:47] Brian: Yeah.

[00:11:48] Alex: He can't be. 


[00:11:49] AI Bubble Check
---

[00:11:49] Brian: all right, let's move on to the AI

bubble check. Okay. So we've, we've had a, a lot, like, I feel we had a little bit of an exchange to this. I, I feel like we're going through the Kubler Ross stages of bubbles where, you know, we've gone from, it's not a bubble. They're, they're u they're using, you know, they're vastly profitable businesses to fund this, this once in a generation, if not more, build out of infrastructure that's needed to, okay, we might need to use some debt to yesterday, the CFO of OpenAI saying we need a federal backstop for all this infrastructure spending.

She's tried to scramble and, and walk it back. but it was pretty obvious what, What she was saying to that and that, you know, this is the too big to fail, trap that a lot of people saw happening. And obviously Sam Altman in particular has been really good at raising money. I don't know exactly what the skillset that is necessary to part investors from many billions of dollars, but he clearly has it.

and something we've talked about here before

[00:13:05] Troy: You know, you know what?

[00:13:07] Brian: in, let me just finish in a transparently untrustworthy character, which is really interesting to

[00:13:12] Troy: you're literate enough on the tech side, you have the credibility of,

he can blend tech cred with business speak and, you know, has the kind of venture pedigree and all the relationships that make people feel like he's the unlock. And, you know, but Brian, I would say that the, the robot, what was the name of the robot this week, Neil? Is that the,

[00:13:34] Brian: that that's, that's the metaphor here, right? Like NEO needs a, Two eyes, no mouth, no nose,

[00:13:40] Troy: Yeah, Neo, Neo can't, can't close the dishwasher even with the human directing it. Right. But you know, on some level, Neo is remarkable technology.

We've never had articulating robot hands doing things and trying to fold laundry before. But the fact is it can't fold laundry and it can't close the dishwasher and it can't do really anything without someone guiding it. Now I think that AI's a little bit different, but you know, the more sober guys like Andrej Karpathy who did that, you know, I think that D Esh podcast that kind of went viral seems like the kind of person we should be listening to who's a little, you know, obviously in the know, but like has a kind of

more sober point of view where the, path to AGI is long, you know,

RL is, is, is limited in large language models.

You know, that's reinforcement learning

that. Just humans are way better at learning from experience and, you know,

like abstraction and analogy and

all the things that it means to be kind of nuanced and human. And, you know, LLMs are remarkable tools, but you know, they, memorize shit. 

[00:14:50] Alex: It is a bubble, I think for sure. the, the people like Altman are very different in the room, I, I don't think most of the population would vote for Altman to become mayor of, of a, of, of a small town. I think people generally dislike him.

And so we look at that, we go like, how is he raising all that money? I think, I think he's very different in the room, and I think there is right now. The, you know, the spin wheel is, is happening and there's so much value being generated that, there's all this ecosystem of people taking bets in this. Oh, well, it's, you know, it's a, look at this growth, you know, like a 1% chance of something succeeding has become worth a hundred million dollar bet, and that feeds money into the ecosystem and the ecosystem is heating up.

But, you know, I'm sure you guys, I mean, you. You shared that Ben Thompson article, Ben Thompson's been talking about the benefits of bubbles. you know, and that bubbles are actually good because I I 

[00:15:43] Brian: Yeah, we went from like denying, there was a bubble to, to saying, okay, there might be a bubble to, Hey, wait, wait, wait. No, no, no. There's different kinds of bubbles and this is a good bubble.

[00:15:52] Alex: The way I put it is like, bubbles are like wars. Like a lot of shit happens in wars. You know, you, you 

maybe you invent No, I, exactly right. Like, but at the end of the day you do invent rockets and you know, stuff,

[00:16:05] Brian: it's true.

Yeah. We've learned a lot about drones.

[00:16:08] Troy: thought guys that the, uh, live stream from OpenAI this week was illustrative, where you had like their head scientist who's a very odd kind of creature. Jacob, what's his last name? P pki. Pki, something like that. And you had 

[00:16:24] Alex: I don't think it's Jacob Buki. Troy, uh

[00:16:27] Troy: yako Yako. 

[00:16:28] Brian: a different character. 

[00:16:29] Troy: anyway, he's the chief scientist and he, he's, kind of an odd fellow.

And he, you know, is stumbling through an explanation of why you would have entire data centers focused on one problem, like proteins or

[00:16:44] Alex: sorry. Pki, not buki. There's a diff buki is a different thing. Troy.

[00:16:48] Troy: I said pki. 

[00:16:50] Brian: Cocky. That's also a very different thing.

[00:16:53] Alex: We're gonna get good thing we're not monetized because we'd lose that.

[00:16:57] Troy: All right. Well, it was an honest

[00:16:58] Brian: Vanya puts the explicit label on everyone.

[00:17:00] Alex: Okay. 

[00:17:01] Troy: Anyway, they're talking about stuff that's kind of mind bending, that you would have literally an entire data center thinking for, you know, weeks on end about an unsolved human problem. And that that could potentially lead to like, non-linear breakthroughs and accelerate the progress of mankind.

Like, it, it, it's, it's, it's kind of interesting. And then you have this guy, this sort of like, kind of chilled out guy interpreting the nerd and saying, yeah, yeah, yeah. All this can happen and we, you know, we need to make massive in investments to make it so, and by the way, it's so all encompassing as a technology.

It touches everything. It's a completely new concept in computing that it'll add points to GNP, it'll touch media, health, science, transportation and, and you know, like you can see how people fall for it.

[00:17:52] Brian: Okay, so basically Altman sits in the room. These, these, these wars come in and they start talking the sci-fi stuff. And he is like, we can do all these things. We can put data centers in space and we can, you know, point them at one specific problem and all this stuff. And he's like, do, do, do. And he like, translates that into what's gonna get the money.

People like hot and bothered.

And then he goes out there and they look over, they, they look past the fact that like Ilya Skeer had like written a 52 page memo about how untrustworthy the

guy was after working with him up close.

[00:18:27] Alex: E is also a weirdo. So it's like, it's like you, you pick, you pick your side. Like I, I think, I think what happens is like you can, you can weave a story that is just believable enough that is talking about hundreds of trillions of dollars of, of, of value. And yes, you're gonna make a hundred billion dollars bet to be part of that.

Like, I think it's, you know, it's a, it's not very sophisticated sometimes, right.

[00:18:51] Brian: Did you see the interview that Sam Alwin? It wasn't an interview, it was like one of the many podcasts. And usually, you know, these guys love to go on podcasts, you know, with their investors or people. And so he went on, Brad Gerstner the podcast, and Brad Gerner asks like, you know, the obvious question as an investor, like, how are you gonna actually have, you know, the returns on all this investment?

Look at the amount of revenue you have, and you're talking about like buying a trillion dollars of, of, of infrastructure. How do these numbers like work? You know, very basic thing. And Sam Altman seemed a little triggered by it. and he's like, you can sell your shares if you want. I've got tons of people.

And 

[00:19:27] Alex: Oh, well, yeah. I think you saw, you saw him. You saw him come like that. Come out of his shell there.

[00:19:31] Brian: That's not a good sign. I mean, I've read enough Greek tragedy to know that like arrogance comes before the fall. 

[00:19:38] Alex: I, I, I have another, I have another kind of like analogy here. I, I think that this technology could very well be, I mean, it already is pretty revolutionary. you know, maybe the robots now are kind of stumbling about, but you can, you know, plot a line in, in 10, 15 years, we might have robots doing our dishes.

things will happen. I feel like, they're, they're pitching this idea of this intelligence that will solve all these problems, but I don't think they can. The, the, there's a ton of value to be generated from that. So what an example, which isn't perfect is.

Google created Google. Google created Google Maps. The existence of Google Maps of a technology was a revolutionary, like hundreds of companies came out of that. Right? And I think it's a good analog, including Uber and, and Airbnb. Without Google Maps, these companies wouldn't exist,or would have a.

Happened much later. Now, the value that was generated was probably like trillion, you know, hundreds of billions of dollars, right? Google didn't really see any of that value realized, right? They created Google Maps, but they didn't see all that value realized the same way that I think a lot of these people are spending trillions into building LLMs and you know, GlaxoSmithKline discovers a cure for cancer. And, and, and produces it. OpenAI is not curing cancer. Right. And at some point you've gotta think to yourself, yeah, you can see that AI can become like a multi-trillion dollar generating, industry, but it doesn't mean that these companies are going to realize those gains. Does that make sense? Like, like, like, like, you know, the train company is not going to make the money.

It is not going to own the gold that's carried on the train. And, and so it doesn't seem. And, and that's, that seems like kind of like a, a thing I have trouble wrestling with and this, which is why like, I didn't, you know, I chose not to invest in a lot of AI stuff because it's definitely a bubble.

[00:21:31] Troy: you know, I think that's kind of partially right, Alex. you, you 

would hope, 

[00:21:36] Brian: That's a W for you. 

[00:21:38] Troy: a w there. I mean, you know, you even had

Sam Ton going on, on, on, on, on the live stream talking about what is the definition of a platform and it's when the ecosystem's value exceeds the value of the platform owner.

So I mean, that is by definition the idea of a platform. I, I, I think that if you can lock in value at the infrastructure layer at the API layer and grab some of the sort of, you know, direct connection to the consumer via devices, you, you know, and, and, and applications. It's clearly an enormous business.

And it's clearly one that is, is, is is far more fundamental than any kind of, you know, vertical technology. It's, it, it, it applies to basically all types of, you know, human interaction business, you know, scientific exploration, all of it. I mean, it, it, it's easy to make the argument that it's worth trillions of dollars

[00:22:33] Alex: But you'd need to be, you need to be a monopoly. You need to control the

[00:22:38] Troy: I actually think this bubble thing is we're already, even if you just look, look at the, the job shifts, the AI is already affecting the economy in really significant


[00:22:51] Job Shifts
---

[00:22:51] Brian: Well, let's talk about that. Like is it the job shifts? Because I think that was something that Alex and and I had discussed last week.

[00:22:58] Troy: right? I mean, I think it's either, it's either organizational flattening that is just a sort of consequence of broad. Maturation in organizations around how we work together in more effective ways, assisted by technology, meaning like, and we'll get into this with the ad agency thing, because there was a huge amount of wasted human labor in moving things of no value between an ad agency and a client, right?

That used to be monetized in all kinds of ways. I mean, we can get into that, but now in comp, well in companies today, it feels like it's just, there is an imperative to just be kind of more direct, more efficient, used technology in more ways. And like Amazon, getting rid of 14,000,of, of the kind of management tier of that company is a staggering number. It's, it's a 14,000 people that you suddenly don't need and your business is 

growing. It's 

[00:24:02] Brian: It's 

insane. Yeah.

[00:24:04] Alex: though. 

[00:24:04] Troy: I mean, just think about

any company I, 

[00:24:06] Brian: think it's insane for, it's insane for someone who is outside of technology that like, you know, because most people operate in industries, which they don't have monopolies in which they stockpile people.I've never been in that situation and it's, it's just so remarkable to see.

I, I see, you know, friends who have gone on left journalism, gone to like, you know, the tech industry one, like literally two weeks ago they were like saying, I've got all these openings, all my team like, and Amazon. And then it was like, uh, we're sorry to see all these people go away on the team. It's

[00:24:43] Alex: think,

I think there's a, there's a, I think we were operating until like five years ago under the kind of the old structures of how you run a company, you know, very militaristic, like a squad of five, manages a squad of five, manages a squad of five, and. Amazon has 1.5 million employees, 14,000 people is nothing.

[00:25:01] Troy: Yeah, they don't have 1.5 million in the front office,

[00:25:04] Alex: No, they don't. That's true. But, but, but the thing is, like, even without ai, just if you used normal tools, just if you changed processes, you could go into any of these companies. If you've ever worked, if, if you've worked, if you've worked with Google, you'd do that. If you've worked with Apple, you'd do that.

you'd be able to do that. Although Apple is a little bit more efficient. But, the, the idea here is that they just looked at this stuff and said, this is inefficient. At my last job, the amount of time that we spend, you know, multiple times a year in performance reviews, hours upon hours.

Right. And you would say like, this is a, this needs to be optimized, this should be optimized. But the expectations was that this stuff would happen. And I think that, and, you know, I don't give Elon all the credit, but it was definitely a marking moment where he went in and fired a bunch of people at Twitter.

I think it, it kind of jolted people into saying, wait, can we do this? It just got executive to ask, can we do this? Can we do this? And they looked at it and they said, yeah, we, we can do this. We can do 

[00:26:03] Brian: It became rewarded in the marketplace. I mean, look, the, the, the stock market has always liked, uh, swinging the ax. but let's talk about, 


[00:26:11] The Great Compression in Ad Agencies
---

[00:26:11] Brian: let's talk about ad agencies a little bit because I think, you know, these kind of services businesses are first to go. I, that's why I think publishing is still an interesting field to, to look at because a lot of the changes that are happening are going to go into other sectors and, you know, ad agencies.

I always go back to Rashad Tobacco Wall, had a great line. He would, he would give to me every now and again, and he would say that, you know, ad agencies are like cockroaches. Like they always survive. That they will, they will always find a way, and that's always been true. But the compression happening right now to this industry is, I think, extreme.

I mean, you look at the stock prices of the publicly traded ad holding companies. WPP is down 65% year to date, S four, which, you know, Martin Sol had started after, his exit, from WPP is down 98% from its peak in 2021. Omnicom, IPG are going to, get their merger through and there there's gonna be a blood bath on the other side of that.

Troy, you are, you, you are, you're an ad agency, seasoned veteran. You're a survivor. You got out, you got out at the right time. What is going on here? 

[00:27:24] Troy: you know, ear, early in my career, I spent a handful of years inside of agency holding companies and, and inside of agencies. And I remember the first time I stepped into one in Toronto, a company called Bickers and Benson, which is an agency, and I thought it was the most remarkable place that, that you could find, kind of a job that bridged business and creative and, and, and, you know, like kind of work.

A creative space that that allowed you just tremendous kind of intellectual and time freedom of time to do things, to make things. And, and I remember the, you know why there was all this legion of account people that managed the creatives because you would take a print ad concept and you would do 32 of them and put rice paper over the front of them, and you would march into the, the, you know, the office of the, the marketing department at the bank, and you would.

You know, meticulously sit in a boardroom with the CMO and go over each concept one at a time and the, you know, the senior account person would be making sure that everything was clear and there was no misunderstanding. And the junior one would be, you know, taking notes and make, getting coffee. And then you would go back in this kind of arbitrary and really stupid back and forth process to refine the, the, the wording of the headline and maybe the image of the ad you know, and spend hours and hours and hours doing a single piece of print creative.

Now all of that is obviously gone. Those were the good days in advertising. But it was, I think what I would lament here is there was a 

it was a time when advertising was a, like a reliable path for graduates that didn't want to, or didn't have the juice to pursue a career

in 

consulting or finance or legal or work too hard.

Right. And these were good gigs and especially good gigs for like hybrid types, that kind of creative business types.

[00:29:27] Brian: mom. Donnie won 98% of AD A to C creative departments.

[00:29:31] Troy: yeah, but you could have a good life, right? You could get a place in Brooklyn, you could have a house upstate, you know? And 

[00:29:37] Brian: Maybe, maybe not shelter, but you know, you could, you could get yourself to like a less fashionable 

[00:29:43] Alex: when I was,

when I was was, hustling, trying to get people to build websites and these people used to hold all the power and have free snacks at the thing while we were working in a hovel, I, I was very envious and I was like, this is what we need to

[00:29:56] Brian: those were corridor agencies they used to be called. 

Because they had to wait, they had to wait in the corridor while the real pitch happened, and then they got brought in 

to say, Hey, how are you gonna make the website?

[00:30:07] Troy: Guys. WPPs market cap is $4 billion. That's 0.2% of Google's market cap. Just think about in, in, in the last 15, 20 years, how much things have changed.

[00:30:19] Brian: And it's crazy because Martin Searl literally used to stand up on stage and be like, we're Google's biggest customer, we're equals, we're we're like, and all this. And it's like, Hmm, I don't think so. Not really.

[00:30:31] Alex: Google doesn't care about you. Google doesn't care about websites. Like every, every time you're a middleman to Google, you know, your days are numbered. So 

[00:30:39] Troy: Each of the big three holding companies, guys, IPG, Omnicom publicists and WPP have more than a hundred thousand people. 

[00:30:46] Brian: So wait, wait, what is that? What is that? In three years, Troy.

[00:30:49] Troy: I mean, it's 30,000 each max And, and, and the interesting thing about it is to think about where all these people go. Right? And you know, I mean, it's gonna look like carnage larger than the scale of Amazon's front office rationalization. And, and I find it hard to believe that boutique creative shops and the creator economy are gonna pick up the slack of all these folks.

I 

[00:31:11] Alex: Can you, I don't know if a lot, I mean, maybe our audience is better versed in that. I don't understand what these companies do. Like what? What is it that they do?

[00:31:20] Brian: Advertising. Holding companies or advertising agencies

[00:31:23] Alex: we are, we're saying advertising agencies. These advertising agencies with a hundred thousand people. What do they do? 

[00:31:29] Brian: Well, they're really more like marketed services.

[00:31:32] Troy: Right. It's a holding company, Alex, but all three of those are holding companies and they have a, what are were called above and below the line, agencies. So those include big old fashioned agencies like JWT and BBDO, and TBWA. And they include PR companies like Fleshman and they include, you know, media buying groups,

[00:31:51] Brian: Now like data brokers?

[00:31:52] Troy: data companies and healthcare companies.

There's all kinds of companies inside 

[00:31:58] Alex: Healthcare, I, to me, you know, from a very simplistic point

of view, and maybe maybe that's the, that's why. We, we, I mean, we ran it like, I mean, I fired so many advertising agencies at Airbnb. I kind of lost count and we ended up doing everything in-house. But I, it feels to me like if you're large enough, you start moving that stuff in-house and dealing directly with the platforms.

And if you're, if you're small enough, you just deal directly with the platforms. I don't understand. How do they retain, what's the talent spread there? You used to go there because all the talented people were there. Are you, is it like, I'm sorry to be blunt, but like. Do you go there for talent? Like what?

I don't understand. I really, I really genuinely don't understand where the business comes from except for like, just like 

[00:32:43] Troy: Um,

yeah, I mean, I, I think in the rarefied companies and the boutiques, you go there, like you'd go to Wyden and Kennedy to get someone who could create, you know, culture shifting, creative that would help you do something, right? I mean,

[00:32:57] Alex: Is it still at Widen though? I, I don't know. I think

[00:32:59] Troy: I mean, I think that Widen is seen as one of the last scaled kind of creative shops.

[00:33:05] Alex: but a lot of people have left these ones and created these smaller boutique shops, which you can snap. Which you can, which you can. Hey, you know, I'm Microsoft. I go to this 12 person team. They're all like X widen people. They're very excited to work for a third. The price.

[00:33:19] Troy: Yeah. Yeah. Alex, I think that there's a huge amount of co coordination that you don't really appreciate where, you know, a company like Microsoft has literally, you know, thousands of products and divisions and corporate messages to, to, to, to manage. 

[00:33:35] Alex: But Microsoft builds its own team to manage that. That's like cheap. Anybody can do that. And the people that used to, the best people that do this at the best advertising agency will jump ship to Microsoft

[00:33:46] Troy: I think year two, four, there was a density in media buying, planning, and research that was outsourced, like it often is in the economy from everyone you know that rationalizes your org, like a McKinsey to, you know, anyone who's a specialist that helps you out. And on the creative side, if you were a Proctor and Gamble, you couldn't get, you know, really insightful, cultured, creative people living in Cincinnati, building a brand.

So you would hire Widen Kennedy.

[00:34:12] Alex: I, I know that's what you used to do and I mean, there was also a

madman era, but like, I don't really. 

[00:34:18] Troy: Yeah. 

[00:34:19] Brian: I think that,

I think that is the big question is like, is like, you know, it was always like an arbitrage for talent, right? I mean, just the same way SaaS companies, I think you could argue, and I, I've heard the argument made or basically developer arbitrage. It's like, you can't hire these developers.

You're gonna have to like, basically, you know, use the SaaS 'cause you're not gonna build it yourself. and now the question is, are there really. Are there really talented on the creative side? Are there really talented creative people gonna be in the ad agency? Or are you just, are you gonna be, are you gonna be a creator yourself?

Like, aren't you going to just, you know, do it yourself rather than just 

[00:34:51] Alex: Or, or, or, or go or go or go straight. You know, like a lot of this stuff is like you go straight or via third party to like the creator economy that puts this on social. Like I, I'm not saying that these things don't do. They do some work. I don't understand. I mean, I think at some point there is kind of this effect that happens where, nobody that's really good at staying there.

Right. And I think that then, you kind of wonder what these companies are doing. And I, I can't see it. I wouldn't, you know, I mean, I have my own bias, you know, at, at we, we fell into the trap of like trying to work with the best ad agencies in quotes at Airbnb. And we, I mean, we weren't easy to work with for sure, but we always ended up doing stuff internally and it worked fine

and it 


[00:35:33] New York Times: Exception to the rule
---

[00:35:33] Brian: Okay, let's, um,

AB is gonna join very briefly, in a brief moment, but let's talk a little bit about the New York Times as the exception to a lot of the woes in the media business. They're now over 12.3 million, paying subscribers. their, their approach has. Broadly worked. And I think it stands in contrast to a lot of the doom and gloom that we end up, unfortunately talking about when it comes to, publishing businesses, and obviously, you know, the New York Times made its shift to focus on subscriptions and that is the number one thing that is driving this business.

But, you know, after bottoming out its ad business, its ad business has rebounded and it's, it's growing again. which is an interesting, counterpoint. I'm actually talking with Joy Robbins, the CO of the New York Times tomorrow about this. and the other thing is the bundle. I mean, to me, the deciding to build a lifestyle bundle was critical.

It was basically the New York Times Facebook feed decision and that it changed the trajectory of that business. give us a thumbnail here, Troy, of what. We can take away from the New York Times apparent success in 

[00:36:45] Troy: it's, I, I really wanna not talk about all the obvious shit like 

the bundle. this isn't a newspaper, Brian, and I think that's what's interesting about this and, and I think we have to reconsider. It has an information service that looks really different and behaves really differently than a newspaper. And, and, and so they added 460,000 subs last quarter. Right. And I think progress is accelerating. And this, this, their success suggests the following to me, looking at it as a newspaper is misleading. It's an information and kind of utility service provider to liberal households. Right. And, and I think that, the family plan is, is a good kind of indicator that this is something that you consume and use, like you do Netflix, your whole family uses this account.

I, I think that while Netflix has 20 times the number of subs, the revenue per sub, their ARPU is converging in the mid-teens with the New York Times. So, so the New York Times, they're, they're full bundles, like 25 bucks. The reported ARPU is like 10 bucks 

and 10 bucks a month. 

And the, the, the, the average revenue per subscriber at Netflix is about 15.

And, and I want to, these are useful numbers, just let me explain why. first of all, for every million subs, the New York Times ads, they add about $120 million a year in per pure margin product power. So the, they have another $120 million that they can put into being the next thing, whether that next thing is video or games, or you know, what, whatever, whatever, you know, depth in any of the categories that they're in right now, for every 10% increase in arpu, they add $150 million in powder.

So everything that they're doing is trying to get you to subscribe to multiple products so that your revenue per month goes up and approaches the $25 number, not the $10 number. Right. So this is, so what's happening is growth in ARPU and growth in subscribers, all high margin revenue is accelerating their progress to be the next thing.

Now, it's interesting to compare it with CNN, both on a product level and on an economic level. So CNN is the sort of closest comparable, I would say, in news maybe at a, you know, at a global scale and e CNN's R ps from Legacy Cable, and they're like, haphazard digital bundle are tiny, less than $2, right?

Because they have fi, they're in like 50, 60, 70 million households and they're getting a tiny bit of money from, from all of those to, that adds up to like around $1.1 billion in, in, in kind of a affiliate or subscription fees, right? And, and so, and, and it's interesting, the new CNN bundle is 6 6 99 a month.

And I encourage you to try it 'cause you'll, you, you'll never use it. You'll never use it. And the other thing they're doing in building this alternative online service is trying to encourage people like me that have cable subscription to CNN via YouTube TV to start moving over and authenticating on CNN directly.

If you tried that, Alex, you would kill yourself. It's not a good product. It is not an

interesting, 

[00:40:16] Brian: never been good products. The 

[00:40:17] Troy: not a, they have never been, never been a good product. And,

[00:40:21] Brian: The cable people were not known for their usability. I don't think

[00:40:24] Troy: right. The p the pro, this integration of video and text and lifestyle and news and, and kind of, app driven utility is just like, they're so far from it. At C Nnn it's not even funny.

The most important move that you're seeing is the creation of the video. They are going to become cable news faster than cable news can become 

[00:40:46] Alex: A hundred 

percent. but Troy, Troy, I mean you remember this maybe, it, it is just a better product. I mean, just open the, the CNN website, open a CNN article and open a New York Times, just a website. Right. And to me, all this stuff, I've, I've been thinking about it since we had our conversation last week, Brian, but I think it started a long time ago.

In, in 2006, they hired like. He was kind of design famous. It was a gentleman called Vin, who is doing a lot of like, design blogging and, and talking a lot about editorial design on the web, which was, you know, nobody else was talking about it. And New York Times hired him as a design director and nobody else was doing that.

Right. The rest of the, the, the media industry, especially the old print industry, was not looking at, at digital design in any meaningful way, but they've been investing in this stuff at, at building a better product for like two decades.

[00:41:37] Troy: Yeah.

[00:41:38] Alex: And it's paying

[00:41:39] Troy: Well, and, and, and I think it's important to note that. In disrupted 

businesses, some are better suited to manage the transition than others. And I think in, in, in many ways, the New York Times was very well suited to the disruption that the internet brought on, even though we didn't consider that at the beginning, because they could expand their core news offering by Geo, geo became irrelevant.

and they could move into to, to new content categories, without any constraints and importantly against cable. They could be relevant in the moment. They could be the place you turn to for breaking news and. I think that's what's gonna happen. I think what you're gonna see is they expect to be 15 million subscribers by 27.

I think they're gonna be bigger than that. I think that they are going, I you that, that, I think you're gonna see them move into a kind of $20 RPO over time. And I think that they are going to be a very, very important source, not just of core reporting and lifestyle and all the stuff we talk about, but video and audio, they're gonna be a huge company.

[00:42:49] Brian: Yeah, I would just say this. Then we gotta move on. We, I wanna bring in, ab they succeeded at the scale game. Like this is a scale model. They're not, they're not like, 'cause I think one of the lessons for publishers is most people are not gonna be able to pull this off and that they are the exception to the rule.

And most, you know, I was talking with the Economist, yesterday, the president of the Economist, and he was like, this is not our game at all. He goes, because, you know, they were getting people in at a lower price point. We have to position ourselves at the top end of the market. We can't be $10 rpu, per month, we wanna be 20 to $25 r poop per month.

And, you know, a lot of people, it was gonna be difficult to pull off that model because it is, as much as we like to say scale is over it, it was a scale model 

[00:43:35] Troy: New York Times reached Death Star status. There's gonna be a lot of sort of creators hovering around trying to pick you off for $10 a month. And then there are gonna be economists, like, you know, constellations or, or, or, or, what do you call that in Star Wars mythology? Alex, I don't know.

Something that sits between the death star and the,

[00:43:55] Alex: Like little, little tie fighters,

[00:43:57] Troy: or something bigger than that. Yeah. But, uh, yeah, but they, they, they made it across, they're, they're gonna be big. 


[00:44:03] Vox
---

[00:44:03] Brian: Ab, are you 

there? 

[00:44:05] AB: Hey, I'm here. Yeah. What's 

[00:44:07] Brian: not much. Your hair is evolving, 

by the

[00:44:09] AB: I know Troy, I was. Troy was using a lot of numbers. I thought he was taking my spot. I don't even know where of those numbers 

came from. 

[00:44:16] Troy: Steve Bannon,

[00:44:17] Brian: Yeah, I know. It's got that 

[00:44:19] AB: I do have the Steve Bannon bullshit jacket too. I'll take that 

[00:44:23] Brian: the double, the double collar look. I love that. let's. 

[00:44:26] AB: like drapery. It's like D drapery for his stomach. 

[00:44:29] Brian: Let's talk about what's going on in the market. I was really, taken as the counterpoint to this New York Times post that, and I believe I mentioned it on this podcast. I, I don't remember, I I blabber a lot these days, but like, I think I mentioned that I thought Vox should just split off their legacy website business.

'cause like the, the website, putting ads programmatically on webpages is a legacy business. It's like a bad bank. You, you split off the toxic assets and then your growth business. Vox has a really interesting story to tell with how it's adapted to ha being basically a talent manager. We've talked about this and then Axios came out this week that where they're floating the idea of doing exactly that is splitting off the publishing assets from its podcasting assets.

Is this a, is this a good idea and what does it say about the relative value of, of, putting, putting ads programmatically on web pages? 

[00:45:26] AB: I think it probably speaks more to the value, the future value of, of podcasts, right? So, Kara. And what's the guy's name? I forgot him. 

Scott. Scott. He's Scott Galloway. 

forgettable. Yeah,

No, but them sticking around, like there's a couple competitors in this space that have taken most of the market share from, from a perspective of audio sales.

And so I think from their perspective, and I don't know any specific details, but it's like. We can separate it, they can probably invest more Behind the podcast, there's probably an, an event component. It's a, it's a completely different business and there's a lot of growth there. And I think on the, the website and the brand side of the media companies that they, media brands that they own, it's like, to your point, there's a lot of headwinds in organic traffic and selling these programmatic ads and even direct ads on websites and in physical and things like that is not that great.

And so it's just probably a way to say. If we decouple these, we can invest behind the business that's growing and sort of reformat that team and then just let the other thing sort of, it's not gonna run off. 'cause I think there's still a lot of value there, but they're just different 

[00:46:30] Brian: yeah. Bending 

[00:46:31] Troy: ab this might be the way that, that, that Jim gets out of this alive. Like they have a a billion dollar capital stack sitting in front of them you know, they had to take the down round when they took, when they took that 20% equity stake from Penske over at Vox. 

[00:46:46] Brian: Oh, Jay drives this tough deal that that was not a pro

[00:46:50] Troy: well then you look over at like the valuations of these kind of emergent podcast networks.

Like this week, however much bullshit was in it, the diary of the CEO one led by Slow Ventures, and that other firm, $400 million. you know, you can look at the investment that Churnin made in that Midwestern crime junkie group at a couple hundred million dollars. So, so, you know, if Jim plays this right, Jim Bako, CEO of, of Vox, there's a lot of value in being a kinda leader in that podcast segment that, that may justify this for sure.

[00:47:24] AB: Yeah, I don't know the, the, the difference there is, I don't know how many of the formats they own versus they're more of a service provider, but Sirius has made become like massive. They've have so much scale in audio. Everyone, they're like the simplest provider and so. You could see Vox sort of evolve into, the other point they have to get good at, and everyone's trying to figure this out, is vertical video sales.

and so Sirius doesn't have that muscle yet, and so they can invest behind that. But yeah, I agree that this is probably a way to unlock additional value by decoupling the two, because you can sell this pod net podcast network to a lot of other companies, other media companies that want to get more into podcasts. 

[00:48:01] Brian: Yeah, I hope they pull it off. Jim Bang's, always been, I, I find him a, a likable, and straightforward guy. And I like a lot of the people at Vox too, so that I'm, I'm a little biased at that. I think they have three businesses basically. They've got this growth business and the podcast personality, talent management, and then they've got a really legacy business in the ESPY Nation assets and whatnot.

And then they have an interesting business around the former, New York magazines assets. It's more of a brand activation business. It's gonna be more about events and doing things. But there are three different, and I think that two of them, two out of the three, have a 

[00:48:39] Troy: Yeah. The one thing you have to give to Vox and is that I would argue that they have a history of making. Caring about the products more than others. They make good products. A lot of their products are really good. And, and I think that post the acquisition of New York Magazine, the product, you know, became more important in culture.

And, you know, I think that, you know, verge has done an okay job at navigating changes and becoming, you know, relevant in video and podcasting. And so yeah, they did. They've done a really good job. 

[00:49:11] Brian: and also in, in in Media company News, Gnet has rebranded as USA today. Go figure. I knew this was in, you know, when they, they were Lark Anton over there. Lark, if you're listening, would, would, would bug me if I put Gnet, like to say, no, you need to put Gnet slash USA today. so they were inching towards this, I think USA today is like an interesting brand. I mean, you talk about like a distribution hack. It was like an original distribution act of like, okay, we're gonna be at every single hotel and motel. and now, Gnet is a collection of a lot of different local assets. It's gonna, that's a tough business to make work. 

Ab Any 

[00:49:53] AB: Yeah. I mean the, I think we gave them this, we were trying to help, this is a long time ago, and I normally didn't talk about deal stuff, but this is like 10 years ago. I think we, we had that idea because we helped, we tried to help Gnet by Tribune and right when we were doing that, that's when Tribune trained, changed its name for like six months to trunk. 

[00:50:08] Brian: Let's pivot to trunk. 

Legendary. 

[00:50:10] AB: to your point about the distribution in the physical form, it's massive. I mean, it's, it's a great news brand. It doesn't really mean that much, but it's almost like US News. It's like it has a great domain authority. It publishes a bunch, gets a bunch of traffic, and so it's a simple way to sort of reconfigure the, I don't think it really means that much, 

[00:50:28] Brian: was an innovator. Ab, I'm a little older than you. Okay. They were the first per USA today was the first person to go color. Okay. This was, this was, this was what innovation was like. They were the first one to really bring infographics to the forefront. Shorter articles, lot of photos. 

No. 

[00:50:46] AB: Yeah, great. I mean, but just, just, it's one, one really interesting thing. So, and I'm not trying to take us back to the Vox thing, but one thing to think about is, so when Vox, as it's taken this money on and continued to grow, like some of these formats. The website versus the audio component, like it just turned out to audio turned out to be a much better format and more resilient when it comes to this AI disruption.

Right. And like, and so as, as, as people think about media valuations, to your point about this innovation that USA today did, where they got hurt is the distribution channel got completely messed up. Audio is surviving because the distribution to consumers is much more locked in. Right you, you subscribe to a podcast and it automatically gets downloaded into your player.

AI really can't disrupt that. Maybe Spotify can start to throw in ads and try to get you to switch to another podcast, but that's just as we get into. The different innings of this disruption of how people engage with content. That's why I always believe that Substack was more valuable than beehive. and I know you have your vested interest in beehive, but it's like Substack has a network and like, unless people are automatically subscribed or learn about a newsletter from Beehive, it's really hard to get the next person.

Whereas on Substack, there's a way to discover and then lock that person in that. yes, the feed is programmed by an algorithm, but there's ways to get that connection to the consumer and then keep it, and so I just think, I just think it's something interesting to point out is like podcasts are valuable because it's cheap to produce.

You can have a massive audience. It's, it's like you don't have to have, the content still exists and is valuable and viable for a couple days. It's not like if you don't read it that day, it's not valuable. and it's just like, where to invest or where is the value gonna continue to either stay the same or go up and not get so degraded it.

You have to think about distribution channels and types of content that have the lockin and that can exist for 'cause like the degradation in most of this news content is so quick. Right. But Yeah. 


[00:52:45] Puck-Air Mail Deal
---

[00:52:45] Brian: So, Troy, I don't know if I ever got your take. I wanna get y your, your view on, on puck, buying air mail. I know this is a tiny deal. and look, air mail didn't work. and I don't think that's like a shock. I'm just, I'm mostly shocked that they spent all that money on an email newsletter. I mean, the, I I still, I'm still amazed by that, because the whole point is you don't have it.

It's not starting a magazine. yet somehow you end up spending the kind of money that you would think to start a magazine without actually starting the actual magazine. does this, does this, does this matter? Does this like help puck much.

[00:53:23] Troy: am, I'm bullish on Puck because I like the idea that if you can retain talent with real cred in their verticals, and I think John Kelly has done an amazing job of that. and you can make them. A kind of equity part of your company and manage that, like basically a curated group of sub stackers around a brand that there's something really powerful in that.

and you know, I think in the verticals they're in, they're been really, really, they're important and they're successful. So, I think that managing growth though is, is the question. And I think that Puck still has a lot to do, right? Like, I don't think that their audio products are good enough yet.

And I think that their activation, this, this side of the business is sort of lagging, certainly aspirationally and lagging in some ways. Semaphore, I think there's much more that they could do. They just did a kind of business of sports thing that had, you know, a really impre impressive lineup. And, but I think that, you know, just growing puck is gonna be a huge amount of work for them.

And there's a, you know, tremendous amount of, of, of potential there. You know, air mail. Is probably, I'm sure it's a great list. air mail I think is really, you know, good, pathways to luxury dollars. So I think that's great. And I guess if they can kind of engineer it to become the, the lifestyle, you know, kind of, you know, equivalent, you know, in the, in the Ft parlance financial Times of how to spend it.

Like if it could become the how to spend it of Puck, that's, that's pretty cool. you know, maybe they'll succeed at doing that, but it feels like it's a lot to chew on operationally.

[00:55:06] Brian: Yeah, they have, they now have retail. So that'll be, uh, that'll be 

[00:55:12] AB: It's a cool store. I mean, the, the interesting. thing, because I was like, I was playing around on both of the sites and it's like marrying up two, as TRO was saying, it's marrying up two different things, right? It's like Puck is this combination of a bunch of different writers and then Air Mail is more of like a magazine brand that fits somewhere between the, the New Yorker and New York magazine. 

[00:55:31] Troy: Yeah.

[00:55:32] Brian: Yeah. 


[00:55:33] Good Product
---

[00:55:33] Brian: should we get to good product? 'cause I'm running outta battery.

[00:55:35] Troy: All right. 

​

[00:55:38] Troy: Well, I'll keep it simple this week. You know, I, I think it's rare that you find kind of a nice, like, how often are you just looking for a good movie to watch from like a Thursday night? And they're seemingly very difficult to find. And, through, you know, actually there's a guy from JP Morgan named Michael Semus that does this thing called Eye on the Market.

And he, he, you know, he, he wrote about media trends this week and inside of it he, he listed, he, he talked about this movie that he, that he liked that, that was on Amazon where I never look and it's called The Ballad. Wallace Island. Have you seen it?

[00:56:23] Brian: No.

[00:56:23] Troy: No. No. Ab you don't watch movies. You're too busy. 

[00:56:27] AB: Yeah. 

[00:56:28] Troy: anyway, it's, a really, I would, I just, I highly recommend it. Maybe you'll criticize me for sending you on a little bit of a sentimental journey. It's a movie about a, you know, this quirky guy that lives on an island that's won a lottery and brings these two musicians that he adores to the island to reunite them and basically play for an audience of one.

and he's a, you know, quirky English guy and they're kind of washed up, you know, successful folk musicians on it. Sounds terrible the way I'm framing it actually. but it's a really nice movie and I highly recommend it. It's good product. Ballad of Wallace Island.

[00:57:08] Brian: Okay, we'll check it out. 


[00:57:10] Outro
---



[00:57:10] Troy: That's it for this episode of people versus algorithms where each week we uncover patterns shaping media culture and technology. Big thanks as always to our producer, Vanja Arsenov. She always makes us a little clearer and more understandable and we appreciate her very, very much. If you're enjoying these conversations, we'd love for you to leave us a review.

It helps us get the word out and keeps our community growing. Remember, you can find People vs. Algorithms on Apple Podcasts, on Spotify, and now on YouTube. Thanks for listening and we'll see you again next week.

[00:57:45] Brian: let's leave it there 'cause I'm at 1%. 

[00:57:47] Troy: All 

[00:57:47] Brian: episode. All right guys. 

[00:57:49] Troy: See you.





