PvA S4E166
===


[00:00:00] Open
---

​

[00:00:01] Brian: Supposedly people are all leaving LA like it's not hot anymore. it's dead.

Lots of places are dead, supposedly. 

[00:00:07] Troy: Well that's what makes towns interesting in some ways. LA's the new Detroit.

[00:00:10] Brian: Oh, that could be cool. 

[00:00:12] Troy: entire lifetime people have pronounced Detroit dead.

[00:00:15] Brian: I know, but then it flipped and then it was like, no, Detroit is cool.

​


[00:00:28] Welcome
---

[00:00:28] Troy: how's Vegas

[00:00:29] Brian: Vegas. Speaking of, this is another, I should say, welcome to people versus algorithms. I'm Brian Marcy. I'm from, I'm from Las Vegas. No, I'm in Las Vegas for, the Consumer

[00:00:37] Troy: AB is from Las Vegas?

[00:00:39] Brian: AB is from Las Vegas. That actually s that somehow tracks. I know a few people who are from Vegas and they're a particular type.

I'm joined by Troy Young because I had to change the timing of this 'cause I'm going to be fleeing here tomorrow. Alex, who always has Alex Schleifer, who always has a hard stop, was unable to join the city. He's a little mad about it. and AB is working on some kind of deal, so he won't be here too.

So it's just me and you Troy. we're gonna talk about, year ahead. We've got some superlatives. I'm gonna, I wanna start with a little Vegas report. 'cause we talked about distress cities. Vegas is one of those. I don't know if you've been reading, but Vegas had a really difficult 2025. Tourism is down substantially, particularly in the summer.

You know these, Vegas is a really interesting place 'cause I do see some similarities with Miami in that it attracts tourists from and down the socioeconomic ladder. And if you go around the casinos, which unfortunately you'll have to when you're on the strip. Okay. because it takes 20 minutes for me to get outside of the MGM Grand because there's 5,000 freaking hotel rooms in this place, which is remarkable.

[00:01:46] Troy: About the Tesla tunnel? Did you take the Tesla tunnel? 

[00:01:49] Brian: I did not take the Tesla tunnel, but one of the things that I, I've noticed is that it caters to the up and down of the, of the income ladder. You've got like high rollers, like, there's a lot of like high rolling, like Asian people, I guess, like back around Asian tourists do that. They're always like hovering around smoking at the,at the, the high, the high roller, tables or the entrance to the high roller tables.

but you can get like, you know, like a, a $400 stake here, golden crusted or whatever. but there's also like, you know, you've got like down market options and, and then everyone

[00:02:26] Troy: the buffet at the Golden Nugget for a good,

[00:02:28] Brian: I, I didn't go, but like everyone then gambles together and like, and gets up to hijinks together and I think that's a really nice thing.

I think Vegas itself, and I've only been here for, for 36 hours, but. I'm just gonna say like, I think like a lot of places, and I see this, I've seen this in Miami because of the way the economy has gone and the inequality out there, everything, everyone tries to move to super high end. Everything becomes too expensive.

Like going to Las Vegas is, it's shocking. Like it's, it's the prices people charge for things here are, are truly absurd. Like, I I, they don't give you water in the rooms. This is not, I'm meant the MGM grant, I'm, this is not a fancy place. it, it's like 18 bucks, you know, they got the magnets on it. It's $18 for a bottle of water.

No wonder it's like, oh, I don't know why tourists are not coming. Oh gee, I wonder why. I wonder why. so Vegas needs to fix that. but otherwise I 

[00:03:26] Troy: smoke? Did you smoke last night?

[00:03:28] Brian: I didn't smoke last night, but I might as well have smoked because it, there's no getting out of the smoke. The smoke ar, aroma, aroma. Here, I just went down to get a cup of

[00:03:38] Troy: You're one of those guys though. You're like a runner that like to have the odd fag, huh?

[00:03:42] Brian: the odd fag, we don't see, we don't use that word, in America. no, not anymore. I mean, I did, but I'm like, I'm 53. You, you, you should not smoke over the age of 35. You can have the occasional cigarette before you're 35. And then I think you gotta, you gotta just, you gotta just stop. It's not worth it, you know?

Unless you're fully addicted, then you know, smoke and just take 10 years off your life expectancy. Yeah. There's nothing wrong with that. I know my mom was telling me a story of a, of some, some family relative who. Smoked constantly, and it's like, you know, whatever, Mildred, this is gonna kill you. She's like, whatever, I enjoy it.

It's fine. I'll take the trade. She was going into it with eyes wide open. So anyway,

[00:04:26] Troy: Is Vegas. Is Vegas a cousin of your hometown? Miami.

[00:04:32] Brian: No.

[00:04:32] Troy: Miami. Your your new hometown.

[00:04:34] Brian: Oh. I mean, I think that there, there, there's similarities in that they're, they have tourism, dependent economies. but Miami has, has far more going on, I believe than than Las Vegas and Las Vegas to be share, to be fair, I'm really interested in Las Vegas outside of the Strip because I'm reminded of coming to a place like this.

Everyone loves to hate on Las Vegas. Like everyone I I meet at CES, they're like, oh, CES again. It's really strange that people like all, not all, but most people I talk to, and I think it's like a sort of, a social thing they want to complain about having to be in like Las Vegas and nobody does that with Miami.

People love to go to Miami. but I think it's a classist thing with, with Las Vegas to hate on Las Vegas. And to be fair, I I, I do, I do that myself.

[00:05:22] Troy: I was thinking about you last night. I, I watched the night before I watched the Michael Mann Miami Vice movie from, I don't know, what was it, the nineties? Have you seen that? Starring Colin Farrell

[00:05:33] Brian: haven't seen it. 

[00:05:34] Troy: John Ortiz

[00:05:36] Brian: Conley.

you know, I, like, I, I I stick with the, the Don Johnson, Philip, Philip Thomas Jr. I'm, I'm fine with the original. I don't think, I don't think we need to remake pretty much all the things that we remake. I don't need the, I don't need that. I'm good with, I'm good with just sticking with the, the original.

[00:05:52] Troy: Colin

[00:05:52] Brian: do have a, i I,

[00:05:53] Troy: is an Irish actor playing the Don Johnson character. 

[00:05:57] Brian: it's okay. The Irish people can do that. Americans can't put on other accents, but, Irish, the Australians are amazing doing America. I think half of Hollywood is Australian. We just, it. Do you ever have that, like an actor would all of a sudden talk at like the Oscars or something you haven't heard, and then you're like, oh my God, they're Australian too. No idea. the sphere, I have a view of the sphere. I am, I am, I'm a sphere maxor. I, I've never been to the sphere. I love it as a concept. good to James Dolan not great at running a basketball team, but, great job with the, the sphere. It's the most amazing ad canvas. I, it's, I have a view of it outside of my room and Google has like taken over it, a lot, during, CES and, great spending.

I, I, I, I would love to run an ad on the sphere.

[00:06:46] Troy: Did you go out last night? 

[00:06:48] Brian: No, I didn't. I mean, I went out to, I went out to, to just for a dinner after, 'cause I had an event here. Troy, let me just say real quickly, thank you to Index Exchange. They hosted the Innovators unscripted. It was a video podcast. It was the first video podcast I did.

and it was really cool. We talked about age agentic advertising. 


[00:07:05] Agentic Advertising and AI
---

[00:07:05] Brian: Do you know this

[00:07:06] Troy: I've spoken to an executive at Omnicom about its potential in two days ago. Yeah,

[00:07:11] Brian: right? The, the word potential does a lot of work there.

[00:07:15] Troy: to execute agentic traits. 

[00:07:18] Brian: Well, this is like a tip. It's like basically it's stuck on the workflow level. Any ad tech sort of innovation first you, you have to come up with a buzzy term ag agentic check. Then you have to argue for, 12 to 18 months over what that term means. And then you have people who roll out a solution using that term, and then they argue with other people saying, no, no, no, no.

Your age agentic is not truly age agentic. And really the divide comes down to whether it's gonna stay at the workflow level or whether it's really gonna get into the decisioning, you know? And, and that is, everyone uses AI and age agentic and all this stuff for like workflow automation basically. But is it gonna get to the decisioning?

That's when you

[00:08:01] Troy: I mean, maybe a slightly less cynical take. Of course it is at some point. I was speaking to the inimitable, Randall Rothenberg who was on his way to Vegas, who, if you see, say hello to him there, who, as you know, has sort of, birthed a new kind of trade organization to, you know, support or to, to, to kind of, help people in the transition to the new sort of AI agentic world in advertising. Something entirely focused on, on that mega trend. And he likened it. I thought interestingly, to the future of advertising was, was sort of akin to, you know, music, you know, orchestration software, the kind of software that people use to mix, manage and make music.

And that, you know, it's much more than, you know, a dashboard in the future that you can kind of manipulate campaigns, you know, for each frequency, you know, performance variables and stuff. in a way that, you know, like, like you're kind of orchestrating a score for something. And that the, the plugin economy, that, that that's a big part of these, these music music management software packages is something that we'll eventually see in advertising where you can.

You know, plug in different reach models and, and, and kind of conduct this, this sort of advertising symphony. And that what is downstream from this change is like the, the, the, the way that it, it, you know, it affects, you know, how we think broadly about advertising is like, is like wildly profound. Whether or not it takes, you know, five years or 10 years, you know, probably the, the, the longer timeline is what you'll see.

But that the, that the changes are just radical. 

[00:09:52] Brian: Well, radical over the long term. Okay. Yeah. Over the long term, we're all dead too. yeah, it's gonna take a lot. I, to me, you know, I'm a narrative guy, so it, it, it ends up coming back to, When it comes to AI and advertising, and then ag agentic, you're gonna have the people who own the compute basically coming up with their surprise black box solution that everything is going to to outcomes.

And they're gonna say, Hey, you don't wanna mess with all this stuff. You don't wanna have your hands on the knobs. Give us the money. tell us what your outcomes are, what the, what the price is. We're gonna do it, and we're gonna come back and we're gonna mark our own homework. And we're, we're gonna always get A's and you're gonna look good to your CFO.

And that's a really compelling offer. And on the other side, you have this quote unquote open web, which isn't just publishers. It's CTV and streaming and out home and whatnot. And they are going to fight with each other. The, it's the analogy that I heard used was the smart home. The sort of smart home failed because all the different like players were not interoperable.

And so for this to truly live up to its potential, and maybe that's what Randall sees with yet another trade organization, is that it is gonna require, something that at least in my time hovering around this industry, it is not very good at which is any form of cooperation. And that is why there is a oligopoly, in digital advertising because they don't have to mess with this.

but let's see. Time will tell, we're gonna do some superlatives this, this, this


[00:11:21] Semafor's $30 Million Raise
---

[00:11:21] Troy: in kind of semi-related, but unrelated news, did you see that your friends at SE four just raised $30 million at a $330 million valuation? 

[00:11:31] Brian: Good. Good for them. 

[00:11:32] Troy: Nice. Right.

[00:11:33] Brian: All that for an events business. I, I, that's, that's great. I didn't actually see that. I, I, you know, it's, I've got a time change here. I was in line for, at Starbucks for, for, 40 minutes. By the way, Starbucks has a, $10, mocha latte 

[00:11:48] Troy: Emily tweeted, Emily from Feed Me tweeted that if media companies are valued at 165 times ebitda, then she has some calls to make as would you at the rebooting, 

[00:11:58] Brian: 165 times ebitda.

[00:12:00] Troy: yeah.

[00:12:01] Brian: Hell yeah. Hell yeah. Let's talk. No earnouts though.

[00:12:06] Troy: let's,

[00:12:07] Brian: get the email list.

[00:12:08] Troy: I'll hand you the keys.

[00:12:12] Brian: wow. Well that's good for SE four. I, I'll have to dig into the

[00:12:15] Troy: What's the bull case there? Brian? What's the bull case in, in your mind? 

[00:12:19] Brian: I think the bull case for, for SEMA four is. You know, is CS basically? I mean, it's, it's, can you pull off? 'cause when you come to somewhere like CS, 140,000 people descend here, right? And no technology publisher. It's put on by a tech association. And maybe that's the way it always is. But, you know, publishers look at these massive event franchises and they're like, why don't we have that?

Why? Why wouldn't one of the, you know, why didn't Adweek come up with, can you know why? Like, why, why couldn't, you know, media brands ha have these, this is a gigantic business. And so, you know, maybe semaphore, I mean, if I were to grade them, I don't think that they have a ton of journalistic impact right now.

don't think that they're like driving conversations in their, their sectors. I think, I think, you know, like Max Tanney does a great job in media, but media is like whatever, for their kind of business. you know, they need to have massive impact in Washington, in Silicon Valley, in global Capitals.

And I don't necessarily see that. I don't know if you do. I don't, I don't feel that exactly. Do you? But I don't know if it matters, you know, it seems like they're executing well,

[00:13:35] Troy: I mean, if you were gonna contrast it with Puck, I think that there's depth in certain verticals. You know, Hollywood probably being the most successful with Matt Bella, where they become essential to how people do their work. And that's kind of what you want in a, in a subscription business. I think that as

[00:13:53] Brian: they're not subscriptions or you're talking about

[00:13:56] Troy: I know.

Yeah. I, I'm saying that as time goes on, it's gonna be harder and harder for for, for SEMA four to kind of, you know, find meaningful subscription money after it's been free for a long time, it's really hard to kind of tack back and, and make that happen. I do, however, think that. they can have, you know, a quality free editorial product anchored in, you know, different, important regions in the world and, and have that manifest like kind of monetized through a Davos, like, you know, of a set of event franchises.

And I think that if they manage to, you know, events are, are interesting. They, the, the, the genesis of events are really important. Like if you get it right to begin with and it sort of cascades out from that kind of genesis moment and people aspire to be there because you had the important decision makers and thought leaders, et cetera, at your event, then I think that you can build really, really valuable franchises like they did at 

you know, in Davos. So I, yeah, I think there's, there's potential there. Obviously someone sees it. Those guys have done a good job, obviously, of taking the business to market. you know, let's see. I, I think it's nice to see,a positive financing story come, come out, you know, happen inside of media because there's so much bad news. 

[00:15:12] Brian: I agree. I agree. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I, Hey, look, I'm just, I'm just the voice of realism, Troy. I'm, I'm on everyone's side, I guess. Look at Davos. This is a good example. You know, and this is a, I think the promise and the challenge of these kind of models. you know, SEMA four has, they're doing live journalism on the promenade.

I mean, you're a Davos guy, right? You, you went one year at least. 

[00:15:33] Troy: I went 

[00:15:34] Brian: I don't know what that means. No. I got a few notes. It's like, will you be in Davos? I'm like, no, I'm, I'm at CES. That's my speed. you know, they're doing like seven different events. They got Ray Dalio there with the CEO signal. they've got a SEMA four house.

They're doing at least the SEMA four media party. They're doing six, seven events. there, you know, this is a high octane type of events business that I talked with Sarah Personett, the CEO at Puck. And it was interesting 'cause I brought up Semaphore 

[00:16:02] Troy: I love this. I love this counterpoint that, that you got to on that pod.

[00:16:07] Brian: Yeah. And she said she, she is seen. Media. I think she was talking to Refinery 29. she's seen media companies kill their margins when it comes to events. because, and I think that is again, she was at, she was the COO at, at refinery and they had that 29 rooms, experiential unit. And I know during that time, and I think media, I think consumer media companies often are terrible at events.

They've run them at the margins that they can, I, I, I hear this at my dinner and they're like talking about like doing events with like margins in the team. I'm like, are you kidding me? I mean, from a B2B perspective, hell no, no, no. Events should be

[00:16:47] Troy: Yeah, but the, like, the refinery event that, that probably influences her, her take on this was, you know, in, in a, in a lifestyle category was, you know, didn't have, you know, high value B2B audiences and was monetized with advertising not with, not with a paid attendance. Big difference.

[00:17:06] Brian: Yeah. And I mean, look, a lot of events were like propping up, ad businesses and you know, and some, some, you know, I mean, I know Puck likes to say, Hey, you, you gotta have a media commitment in order to do one of these events that are basically agency services. At the end of the day. A lot of these events, particularly in the Washington and Hollywood markets, are similar to, frankly, to the gatherings that I'm doing here.

I did, that's what I did with Index Exchange last night. After this, I'm going over back over to the Cosmopolitan, to do one with my friends at exco, series of video. It's getting the right people in the room. And that is what B2B does. And I think a lot of these kinds of publications, they don't like to use the word B2B.

They just want, they don't want the benefits of B2B, but they think it's a little gosh. you know, they call themselves business to professional, which I find ludicrous. but they want to have that. And it's all about getting the right people in the room. so I think I've always found consumer publications struggle at B2B.

They, they don't really get the assignment. When I, when I hear live journalism, I start to wonder, because you gotta know your assignment. It is matching up a buying a sell site in B2B. if live journalism gets you there, fantastic. But know your assignment, but good for semaphore.

[00:18:28] Troy: some predictions? I liked your predictions.

[00:18:30] Brian: Okay, so how are we gonna do this?

We're gonna do, I I tried to make them into a bit of a superlative. not to, I, I don't mean to go totally negative here. Actually no. Let's start with with, with with the optimism. cause this actually came up in a conversation I had here, which is the unlikely comeback of the year story. I think it could be Yahoo.


[00:18:51] The Future of Yahoo
---

[00:18:51] Brian: Okay. Like, let me, and I know you're, you're, you're close to, what are you, are you like a consigliere of Yahoo? What are you,

[00:18:59] Troy: I

[00:19:00] Brian: I don't know. You run in similar private equity circles, right?

[00:19:03] Troy: I'm fans of, I mean, where I worked on, on the deal as a, as an advisor and, fans of the Apollo guys that led the deal and, know, know, know the management team well, I, I, I

[00:19:15] Brian: Is that Reed? Is that Reed Raymond? He, he's my favorite private equity person.

[00:19:19] Troy: he's, he's the, the, the iconic reference point for private equity in media. yeah,

[00:19:25] Brian: He's my main character.

[00:19:26] Troy: Reid. It. He did it, he did a nice deal.

[00:19:29] Brian: Yeah. 

[00:19:30] Troy: So,

but I, I have, I have spoken in, in, in fairness, I have spoken to, to people there and I do keep in touch with them. And I think that there's a bunch of things that are, are really interesting bubbling up inside a, a yahoo, whether or not it's enough of a, a narrative to support, you know, a, a public process TBD.

But I think there's a, a couple things that will contribute to. To an interesting opportunity for them. The first is that, you know, it's a, it's a nicely profitable business. The second is that the ad tech side of it, which is now primarily the DSP, for years and years and years, is losing a lot of money.

It used to be an SSP and a native ad platform and, and A DSP, and now they're really focused on the DSP and writing the cost structure and, and, and focused on CTV in particular. And what they have that's really nice on that side is they have. Something like 80 or 90% of their audience is authenticated. So they have a nice data set on that, that others don't have.

So to the extent that that, that that Yahoo data authenticated data set can, can aid performance, it's a, it's a really nice advantage as a as, as as a DSP for next generation video, CTV. So I think that, that, that is a source of great potential. you know, they're competing against, you know, large, powerful, entrenched competitors in, in, in a Amazon and, and, and trade desk.

But, lots of potential there. I think that, that you'll see them this year launch a search product, a renewed search product that probably looks more like perplexity. So AI kind of search. And I think that if they can channel enough of their surfaces. into, you know, people coming into kind of new Yahoo search that would give them, you know, this little window to make something that would compete in some small sliver of a way against Google, and they can build audience there.

It's so ludicrously, you know, profitable to be able to kind of, you know, sell that audience in the intent behind it. That, that, that's a big opportunity. I think that, you know, they're one of the few that still has. Both kind of content aggregation and utility such that they're less dependent on, on, on referral sources like Google and Weld.

And so, so, you know, they, they have mail, they have finance, you know, they have,fantasy sports. They have a, a very robust, you know, sports aggregation site. there's a lot there. So if they can start to build other utilities around that, they have a nice little gaming, sort of segment to their business.

They have, you know, they're good at shopping stuff and they bought a little AI company to make their shopping stuff work better. I think they can do weather well. you probably see them integrate prediction markets into their interfaces. Like we'll see lots of media do in 26. So there's, there's opportunities I think for Yahoo Plus, it

[00:22:26] Brian: Yeah, for sure. I mean, I think, I think, you know, they have a front door that like, you know, people moved on from portals, right? But they have a front door with, you know, with mail, with finance, with sports, with news, that is reliable traffic. And, this is, you know, this is, this, this becomes more valuable in a time of volatility.

They're also hosting a party here tonight, with Public Enemy. so they rented Flava Flav. I assume Chuck D's gonna come. I didn't know he did these corporate gigs. but. Good for them. I mean, take the

[00:22:57] Troy: Yeah, Jim, Jim likes, Jim likes to put, put a, put a band together and do a show. He's always done. He used to do

[00:23:03] Brian: yeah, no, they've, they, they put on, they put on rages. They had a rager at, at can, last year I didn't go, but, they did. I, they did a really nice job with the Yahoo Motel motif. They, they do some, they do some nice things. So that is my unlikely comeback of the year. do you have one or should I keep going down this list?

[00:23:20] Troy: Well, my, my whole take on this was a longer sort of, you know, Troy essay, so I don't know whether you wanna do that now or later, but I was just thinking of kind of, where are we at in media and what is, what did 25 represent and where are we going in 26? And, and so that was the spirit of what I had thought about for this show.

Less, I mean, there are individual like, you know, itemized predictions, but, but it's the, the longer

[00:23:46] Brian: Okay, let's go there. That's more interesting. I was following Alex's like C lead. I should, I should just

[00:23:53] Troy: well, Alex.

[00:23:54] Brian: tell you guys what, what we're gonna do.

[00:23:56] Troy: Alex was angry with, with me and with you, that we, we willy-nilly changed the date, but he did make the point that Reddit is, is gonna continue to come on strong in, in 26. So we'll just register that. 


[00:24:09] The Rise of YouTube and Influencers
---

[00:24:15] Troy: But I had been thinking Brian, and part of it is my love affair with YouTube, and everything it represents.

Part of it was some stats that I read about, about Hulu Plus and Disney, well, Hulu, Disney Plus, and Hulu, kind of summing to under 4% via Neil, like, according to Nielsen of the, the streaming market compared to the 12 plus percent US number for, for YouTube. Interestingly, you

[00:24:39] Brian: Is that in, I'm sorry. Is that in time or in revenue? 

[00:24:41] Troy: That's the Nielsen viewership number.

And, and, and if you look at like web, you know, like, just like kind of web metrics, YouTube is like order of magnitude larger than any of the streamers. If you look, you know, globally it's an order of magnitude larger. and obviously completely different kind of economic structure. But I, I was thinking about where we are in media and, and, and I, and I, I started with this idea of, of influencers, which feels like a term that needs to stay, you know, behind, right?

Like it's a goofy term. And it came because, you know, outside of the kind of media complex, there were people I guess that influenced taste and opinion, but they, I think the, the term stuck 'cause they influenced outcomes and advertisers anointed them influencers. But, and then we kind of went to the creator moniker and.

I don't know, I guess that fell somewhere between like God, the Creator and Tylee, the creator. But, it, it didn't really feel like a real, kind of legitimate, it didn't have that sort of, of a media person. but they were people I guess that made things. But I just started coming back to like what I spend time on and what makes me feel really good outside of, you know, like we all like to watch, you know, the odd bit of professional entertainment, whether it's a movie, an old movie or television show or whatever.

I'm finding myself less attracted to that, and I've been perplexed, quite frankly, by what it takes. To, to run a long-term profitable streaming service. Like how much kind of volume and, and you, you kind of have to, to pump into something like that to create the, the, the, the, the, the magnetism, the engagement magnetism that's required to sustain and grow a, a subscription service.

And it feels really tough to me. And it also, I'm always reminded of lessons of kind of digital media when I think about where the streamers are at, because they seem to face the same challenges that we did as publishers, but 10 years later, and I just thought about like all these people in, in YouTube and it's like a relevant story now because we see the like, you know, enterprising news guy.

What was that guy's name that broke the, the Minnesota Fraud Daycare fraud story?

[00:26:57] Brian: He didn't break it, but Nick, Nick Shirley did, did

[00:27:00] Troy: yeah, right. He was the young 

[00:27:02] Brian: local news reporting. Dude X was like, oh my God, this is revolutionary. It's like, okay. It looks like a

[00:27:09] Troy: Right. But what I love about the YouTube guy, I mean, that guy's just one example, but there's the experts and the enthusiasts that I really like. Like I was, there's the content marketers that I have no issue with when they do it well, like there, there's a, you know that men's brand Huckberry, they're like super ambitious on YouTube and they do these kind of vignettes from around the world.

They do food, they do home, and then they do a really good job of it. And then there's like these semi-professional, you know, producers, a new generation of them that make little docs and showrunners and you know, B2B people and the annoying VC people and the funny people. And then all of the reprocessed kind of nostalgia.

You know, traditional media content that's bite-sized and right-sized and algorithmically filtered for me on YouTube. I love YouTube, right? and so it's all the people. It's the Adam Savages, the Marcus Brownlees, the Patrick O'Shaughnessy, the, you know, Amy PO's, Pablo Tores. There's so many, and I don't know what we call these people.

I don't know what you call them. I don't know if they're video people or content producers, but, you know, the energy of the world, you know, funneled through a very capable algorithm against what I think the thing that makes us human, which is just like our interest and our passion and our enthusiasm for, for things in life and, and ideas really, to me is manifest in that, in, in, in that marketplace.

And, and, and I, I just think that against that, like it just says a lot about. Where media is at. Like that, those kinds of marketplaces to me are the future. And I know that we talk about endlessly about, you know, the rise of the individual and the importance of these kind of small units of production in media.

It's all of that. But it's come to video, right? And so I think marketplaces dominate and like content first, lean structures are essential. And like these messy experts beat polished pros. And you know, community is always instilled in going forward more really important media and that like horizontal products like YouTube always beat.

The individual efforts of media companies and, and, and you need these crazy, sophisticated ad systems, you know, to work there. And that, you know, when it's not that it's media against a diversified revenue stream, like something that Apple or Amazon has and, and, and, and, and so, and or it's like live and sports, which is increasingly, you know, the, the, the province of, of, massively scaled,you know, deep pocketed tech companies.

And so I think against that, if I was looking ahead to me, 25 represented the year that like, we are the, you know, the people are, are the media, but now, you know, it's, it's manifest in video and that. Netflix has a little bit of a shot at, at kind of playing against YouTube 'cause they have scale and they make good products.

but they'll slowly open to contributors because they need to. You know, the funny thing is that like. CBS news, I, you know, Barry Weiss ultimately gets an ulcer trying to fix like an irrelevant franchise in CBS news. And her focus should be like on 60 Minutes extending it across channels and formats to reach new generations.

'cause it does show up in the feed a lot on YouTube and, and it's a format that can work there. I think you probably see Disney elevating the park guy Josh tomorrow over, you know, legacy content, Dana's legacy content leadership, I think Paramount, I don't know, needs to find the next chapter and they lose Warner.

So they, they need to do something with you. You know, you name it. Is it Apple? Is it Amazon? 


[00:31:05] The Future of Digital Publishers
---

[00:31:14] Troy: Is it some reconfiguration of NBC, maybe mainstream sports, which is the old diamond sports, regional sports networks. I don't know. I, I think that podcasts can continue to thrive, but few win the kind of video talk show crossover game, and I think Netflix will struggle there.

I think the digital publishers in 26, you know, they actually, the few that really have qua, you know, quality reporting will prosper. which is kind of a back to the future story where there's kind

[00:31:37] Brian: Wait, so name names. I want you to name

[00:31:39] Troy: well, they're all the ones that we

[00:31:41] Brian: the other end of that. I know you're the optimist, the inveterate optimist, but I think it's gonna be, it's gonna be a difficult year. We're gonna see a lot of, you

[00:31:49] Troy: Street Journal, New York Times, Ft. Economists, the Atlantic, the New Yorker. You know, maybe you could throw some indies in there like Puck. I'm not saying indies don't thrive. I, I think they do actually 'cause they are the main characters in, in the platform game. but, but there are a kind of fortified few that, that are on the other side of the, the subscription scale challenge. And I, the, the one thing that you said to me that always resonates in this kind of big picture diatribe, which I will wrap up now, is, that, everyone else gets sold rationalized or, or reinterpreted as some kind of harvestable. Ip, your glue factory line that you've said lots of times. That always irked me to be honest, because I thought that was a terrible way to characterize hardworking media people and the, and the brands I represent.

And, and it was a lot of the brands by the way, that, that I worked on for a long time. So, but I think you're right. You're a hundred percent right, they're all going to the glue factory. And guess 

[00:32:50] Brian: is going to the glue factory this year.

[00:32:52] Troy: They're all going to the Glue Factory brand, and they're valuable in the Glue factory because we need glue and we need two dimensional brands to stick on top of lots of things, right?

Whether it's this, you know, the Fortune experience or the accolade from Forbes or you know, whatever, you know, the, the underarm deodorant from, you know, l you name it. And so, you know, I think they, they, they do find, find purpose, but to me, 26 is this inflection point where we start, you know, truly stop thinking about these kind of hallowed media companies as trusted institutions.

And media power just resides in systems and interfaces and the

legions who create for love And money. 

[00:33:36] Brian: Yeah. I think that's the default assumption that, that we'll start to,

[00:33:40] Troy: I, I guess this is just, you know, I guess just what everybody thinks, but

[00:33:44] Brian: because like, I don't even, like, so, so like Will Welch just left, you know, he was the global editorial director at, gq. I did a podcast with him one time. I asked him about whether I could wear joggers into the office.

He said, you might not want to, there could be an outline. So I thought that was kind of funny. but he left,

[00:34:01] Troy: Maduro was wearing joggers, to the office and then ultimately to prison, which became a big meme.

[00:34:06] Brian: Yeah. So no joggers. I stuck to the jeans. but he, he just left, you know, a great, a great position. He's been at Conde forever, to work, to move to Paris, to work for like Pharrell. You know, I mean this is like, you know, you see a lot of times in


[00:34:20] Media Personalities and the Creator Economy
---

[00:34:20] Troy: Well, it's the human equivalent of everything I just said, right? It's like the media person becomes the front end for the fashion brand. 

[00:34:27] Brian: And I think we'll start to see that kind of crossover becomes, you know, the norm where, you know, that's why I like the, the term media person, because you can be a media person and not be, oftentimes you are not a, a journalist or like a quote unquote profession. You might be doing something else. And to me that is what is going to be, when we talk about the creator economy, I think we're gonna start to see just a continued, focus on those who are not necessarily, you know, sub stackers, but people who are experts at, at a craft who are then able to communicate that the Lenny Ky, like I just, I have a podcast coming out with cj Gus have said I love his business.

He's, he's basically the Lenny Ky of CFOs. Okay. This is an unbelievable val, unbelievably valuable segment. If CJ does like a 3 million top line for like a solo business and like probably has a couple hundred thousand dollars in costs, that is a business everyone will talk about. Emily Berg's feed me.

Emily's done a nice job with that. CJ's got a way, way, way, way better business. There are tons of CJs out there, and they're building really good businesses. It's not as sexy as the feed mes and the other thing, but that is where, you know, you mentioned Patrick o O'Shaughnessy. He's got a really great media property going on there.

You know, and like there, that, to me, the acquired guys, the acquired guys had did, did a podcast with, Michael Lewis about, acquired as a business. and another fantastic business with, with how they're building a fine that they, like, they got escape velocity. They're, you know, the number one, probably tech podcasts out there.

but those to me, are the really powerful media businesses. I mean, I will still,focus on, on the managing decline, part of, of the market. but when you're looking for growth, that to me is, is where, is where I look to,

[00:36:25] Troy: Mm-hmm. So nice. You buy it.

[00:36:28] Brian: I mean, absolutely I buy it. one other, just a note on, on what you said. 

Well, cause I, I think just to, to, to jump off on that, 'cause you mentioned Nick. Shirley, I think what we are gonna see this year is that a new information space, main characters, emerge, who are using the trappings of investigative reporting and often have an agenda.

I mean, Nick Shirley is a young guy who used to be like a prank YouTuber, you know, in like high school. He's, he's, he's a native, he's a native species of, of the information space. he uses investigative reporting, with this Minnesota,social services fraud scandal. he has an explicit point of view.

And you see this James O'Keefe, you know, I is, is a great example of this kind of activism as investigation, and to me this is a continuation of we have seen a lot of self-interested parties who use the trappings of journalism, in order to compete with, with journalism. Everyone is out there in the information space competing.

And I think that we are gonna see, it was, it's always been on the sort of commentary so that's what 

I'm, I'm 

[00:37:39] Troy: I, I, I wanna add, I wanna add to your point and kind of get your take of this,

[00:37:43] Brian: Okay.


[00:37:43] The Ethics of Content and Prediction Markets
---

[00:37:43] Troy: this notion of agenda to me was, everybody has an agenda, right? And when you think about like all of the, you know, kind of, criticisms level that people that use media or content to advance, you know, some, you know, self-interested,you know, objective, you have.

People criticizing Michael Wolf for his tactics to get close. 'cause Michael Wolf has an agenda of getting the inside story. We have people accusing Barry Weiss of having agenda because she sent her 60 minutes, presumably in support of, you know, her, her, her friends in Washington. you have, an army of traders on poly market, all of whom have an agenda, all of whom have, it's unclear, you know, how they are potentially trading with advantage, right?

Which goes against how we think about, you know, fairness in markets. You there, there's like content marketers. We used to despise content marketers 'cause of course they have an economic agenda. But like in the great big C of the information space, everybody has an agenda. But it all kind of levels out 'cause we know it 

[00:39:00] Brian: Yeah. I don't think it's a bad thing. No conflict, no interest is the way of the is is the way you know, and because what happens is you get assigned an agenda no matter what. And, whether it's, it's true or not, it doesn't really matter. And that is just part of the Hurley burley of everyone trying to compete for, for influence.

and

[00:39:23] Troy: I mean, that said, I think that what the only thing that the remaining kind of legitimate subscription supported scaled media brands have is trust. And, but even there, we, we we're, we're convinced that they have an agenda. The New York Times has an agenda, but, you know, I think that there are a few places that will, we will go to try to look at things more objectively, but outside 

[00:39:49] Brian: Yeah, it's like Hunter Brook. It's like Hunter Brook. Great, great, great model. You know, they're taking the trappings of investigative journalism and they're marrying it to short selling. So they'll, and, and short sellers are a form of investigative journalists. That's what they do. I mean, people hate hate on act.

What are the, they've got rebranded activist investors, you know, short sellers are, are basically, they're doing the, the, the hard work. Research, opposition research. you know, so many investigative pieces in, in in Washington originate with opposition research firms. I mean, fusion GPS was started by, a guy who is a Wall Street Journal investigative reporter.

You know, these skills will be used. And when people say, well, what's gonna happen to the reporting? Well, this could be an answer, right? Like, I, and I know that will, a lot of people will not like to hear that with like, you know, Nick Shirley's, well, guess what? You know, progressives are gonna have their own Nick Shirley's like, none of this.

It's not gonna stop here. Just the same way on the commentary layer. you know, progressives have developed their own, outlets. This is gonna happen here. And, you know, people are gonna have to kind of gauge for themselves who to trust, and that is why. But this is my term of the year. Are you ready for this?

It's legibility. Okay. I've noticed this pop up a lot more in like tech circles, right? But I think legibility is actually an interesting concept in that I believe that the, the attention economy is ending. I'm gonna see Joe Marqueese later and he's gonna disagree with me because he's got a book coming out about this, about the attention economy.

I think the attention economy turned us all into that like tube man who's like outside of car dealerships, that big inflatable guy who's like arms go up and down and gets your attention. And that's really low attention. Capital is very low valued and it's made for a world of impressions, legibility.

And I think that's what you see in the information space is people go out there and they wanna attach some concept or name. Or, or some concept to themselves, right? And like they become known for that. They put an idea out there and then that becomes associated with them and they derive influence. sometimes power, sometimes money from that.

but it, it's important to be legible these days. Operating behind the scenes, is not as powerful. That's why I think you see a lot of the most powerful people who are out there being content creators, on a regular basis. 'cause they want to become, they need to become, legible. And so I think that is going to be a big, a big shift that we'll see this year.

And that, you have to become associated with it. You think about Ben Thompson, you know, aggregation theory. He's been dining out on that thing for over a decade. I mean, good for him. you know, if you otherwise. I think what you're saying, and this is where I'm just like kind of less into it, is otherwise you're in the sort of media equivalent of the casino capitalism game that is, is, is spreading through, most of the economy.

You know, you feed, you feed your content into the, into the YouTube, you feed it into to TikTok and you hope it, it, it, it pops. I mean, that is my, my issue with YouTube and why I can't, it's, it's the thumbnails, you know, it's Mr. Beast, Mr. Beast is, is, is not inspiring. You know, he's a guy who's who, who really rose by being really good at, at grinding through the optimization and, and being, fairly shameless about it.

I don't think that Mr. Beast is as, I don't think he's the model sort of going forward. he's just some, he's a tube man out there getting attention.

[00:43:44] Troy: Yeah, I mean the coloring YouTube with Mr. Beast is a misunderstanding of what it is. But anyway, let's go. Let's go on to some of your other, 

[00:43:52] Brian: Okay, so the other one, just because you brought up prediction markets, the new elite moral panic is gonna be over prediction markets and gambling. Dave Ramsey just, has a viral video about the scourge of, of sports betting. I think when we look back, and I'm gonna pat myself on the back here on this one, Troy.

On this podcast, I, I said that we will look back on legalizing sports gambling as a massive mistake. I said this over a year ago, so I was very early to this. I know I went, I went to school in New England. I, if, if you had given those guys, legalized sports gambling on their phone, forget it, they would've never graduated.

we are gonna, you know, I think we're already seeing this sort of story. We, we love a moral panic, right? And I think this one is kind of justified. we have mainstreamed a lot of forms of gambling. Prediction markets is a form of gambling. There's going to be legal crackdowns on that. you know, the amount of insider trading that is going on, and also just the grossness of.

Placing bets on like war and things of that nature are gonna cause us to sort of, I think, cause a lot of people to step back and be like, is this the kind of society that we truly want? while I understand the argument that prediction markets are a way of getting at, at truth, I just think inevitably these are detestable brands.

and Kashi Poly Market, FanDuel, DraftKings, the rest of them, they're gonna, they're, they're the, they're the new cigarette companies. And I think that is going to be something that is going to, become apparent in 2026.

[00:45:31] Troy: Hmm.

[00:45:32] Brian: I know you're on the, on their side. You, you private equity guys love this kind of stuff, right?

[00:45:37] Troy: how do I feel about it? I haven't thought about it enough, but I do think that you're probably wrong. Yeah. you know, cigarette companies have, you know, done just fine and they've morphed into different products that are slightly less harmful. I, I think that we're defined as creatures by, both our virtue and our sin.

And I think we need to sin and I think that, you know, having a cigarette as a runner is a small way of expressing that. 

[00:46:05] Brian: I, I was already, I, I just, I, I, by the way, I, I came out being pro occasional cigarette until you hit 35 and then you gotta grow up. 

[00:46:12] Troy: Okay. I, I think that expressing your opinion, belief for. Just your love of the game in a financial incentive isn't a terrible thing. And I'll give, you know, I mean, I, I see a slightly different side of it. Like, and I'll get to this in good product, but you know, I led a group of people to go to the Buffalo game against your Eagles in the pouring rain in Buffalo.

And, you know, we gathered 

[00:46:42] Brian: Did you break a table?

[00:46:44] Troy: no, I, I wanted to, but, but it was, the weather wasn't cooperative. you know, we gathered at a bar before the game and we all, we all, we all worked together to put our bets down and, you know, it made the game 

[00:46:56] Brian: a lovely family moment. Okay, so I didn't, I didn't think about, I didn't think about the, the, the sports gambling, bringing families together angle. So thank you for that.

[00:47:06] Troy: Alright. what.

[00:47:09] Brian: All right. 


[00:47:10] The Future of Major Cities and Job Market Predictions
---

[00:47:10] Brian: So The premature, death, of the year is gonna be again, New York and San Francisco. This, I we're in a new Miami. Cycle. And, I think Patrick, Collison, one of the, the stripe, the Stripe brothers, you know, he, I love all the rich people from California are rediscovering the, you know, the wonders of, of empanadas and ARPAs.

right when they, they passed a billionaires tax in, in California, they're like, you know, Florida's really great. and so this will lead to a new cycle about whether Miami can compete for, for tech companies and for, for finance. I don't believe it'll ever really happen. I think Miami's a great place to have a second or third office and, you know, give it to people as like a lifestyle arbitrage.

But, building a massive tech company or, you know, it, it's just not gonna happen in, in Miami. but I do think that this year, New York and San Francisco are gonna do just fine. San Francisco's got, a new mayor, because he's like been in for a year. He's, he, I haven't been in a couple of years, but he is apparently doing a nice job over there.

I think that most of the, the whiny, billionaire set, or I don't even know, is David, David Sacks a billionaire. I have no idea. I think that they'll, they'll either move to Austin or the one or the ones that stay will be like Jensen Huang. And he will be like, he'll take the, he'll take the PR bonus by saying, oh yeah, that's fine.

I don't really think about it at all. New York. You know, Momani, he's gonna be unbelievably popular in 2026. You know, the, the, the hangover doesn't happen in the first year. He's gonna have a great honeymoon. You already see it. Like I saw all this like fawning coverage over him. fixing some bump OO on the bottom of the William Street Bridge, where, I don't know, you would cycle over and you'd have to go over a bump and, you know, they got the shots of him, him filling in, some.

I guess concrete, that, that's gonna be all year. He's not, he's not gonna go after, he's not gonna do the stuff that's going to piss off like a ton of people. in the first year, there's gonna be bike lanes. It's gonna be exciting and everything. The bill never comes until later. And socialism is gonna get a, a second look yet again in 2026, it is gonna become extremely popular.

We are gonna move incrementally, and I know Alex will love this from these idiotic, culture war wars to far more dangerous class wars. and so I do not believe we'll see an exodus from, from New York and San Francisco, for Austin and Miami. That is my. Prediction for next year. I also do not think that we are going to see, the job apocalypse.

I think we're, the frog in, in the boiling water. every, every research that I see see says that, people running big companies plan to keep hiring basically flat, next year. And we'll see the, the, the unemployment rate drift higher, but the idea that there's gonna be some AI Cliff, I love the I AI Maximalist and I, I love listening to them.

and they're sort of crazy predictions. I just don't believe that. I don't believe these things happen that, that quickly. So no job apocalypse


[00:50:16] The Role of AI and Robotics in Society
---

[00:50:16] Troy: Well, if anything, the, the tech guys, that seemingly, take up more and more of the media spectrum every year, you know, are guilty of extending what they would, annoyingly call their first principles thinking into, you know, logical conclusions. We saw this over the break when Drk Patel and another guy wrote an essay about the trade between capital and labor and how wealth would ultimate when no one worked and robots did everything.

Wealth would naturally accumulate to. Labor and there would be no lever or to, to

[00:50:50] Brian: Capital. Yeah. Right now capital is two. Third two basically takes two thirds and labor. let, 

[00:50:56] Troy: I'm reminded of 99, 2000 when, everybody that worked in an of, you know, a burgeoning new group of services companies called digital agencies, which at the time were, were brand new, and everybody that participated in, in kind of the early phase of e-commerce on the internet believed that in a short period of time, we would only conduct commerce on the internet.

And, you know, obviously it became a big part of how it augmented, how we purchase and how it changed how companies service us and all of that. And, but we still go to stores and when I walk out of my house today, there are, you know, people at rest. The, the, the, the robots are not coming. This year, the robots are not coming next year.

You know, there, there, there's the people at the restaurants, at the dry cleaner, at the bank, people looking at deals, people reading the paperwork, people making the ads, all of the coordination, the taste, the risk, mitigation. This notion that, that like, you know, we're gonna see 30% unemployment is bananas.

[00:51:59] Brian: No, I agree. I I, I go back to, you know, Amazon started, drone delivery. They started, they, they're testing drone delivery in Dallas. And, they started this late, late in 2025. And I remember 2007 60 minutes had Jeff Bezos on talking about drone delivery. And he was like, it's right around the corner.

and look, I'm a Jeff Bezos fan except for how he spends his, his off time. I think that's unbecoming. I don't know if you saw that. St. St. Bart's. anyway, he, sounds like a, it seems like a terrible way to live. he's gotta end this midlife crisis. It's, it's gone on too long, but like, if he's off by 18 years, I think this is gonna take a long time.

You know, I, I totally agree. The, the robot is not gonna be emptying the dishwasher, for, for another several years. I did see a lot of robots around here. you know, it is CES, so, I'm, I'm very pro robot. That to me is, is, is, is ex, is way more exciting than a lot of the AI talk. I, I, I'm into the idea of us having robots all around us.

the delivery robots in Miami, they're still lost a lot of times. They still don't seem to like they know where they're going. dogs continue to confound them.

[00:53:14] Troy: Well in your list. Two other things

Brian, in your list, two other things stood out that I would like you to touch on, and they're related. One is, the longest running fight with no resolution, the battle for sovereignty. And the second was, the one I liked was the,the most unlikely culture war, the pule versus AI and maga.

Can you talk about

[00:53:37] Brian: Oh yeah. Yeah. So I think, you know, I've been tracking, this new pope, the Wawa Pope as I, I I like to call him, some people call him the American Pope. Some people call him the Bulls pope, but he is the first Pope I even confirmed this. who has been to O Wawa, because he went to Villanova. So I think it's safe bet.

he's a media figure at the end of the day, and that's why like I focus on it because if you think about like what, what, what is a pope in 2026? He's a moral figure who uses, who uses media, to create leverage. it, it's become very apparent that it is looking to take the, the Catholic church's traditional pro-life stance that has been associated with opposing abortion and sometimes the death penalty, but to apply it far more broadly to, areas that are going to run him completely against.

MAGA because, AI seen through this lens is an affront to human dignity. immigration, he's already challenging, the Trump administration on, on immigration, and he is gonna be a figure to watch in 2026. I think, you know, popes are not as, as influential as obviously as they, as they used to be, but I think that that is a fight.

I mean, Trump is not known to, like, to shy away from a fight. So I think, Trump, Trump, first to Pope in 2026 is, is on my, prediction list

[00:55:03] Troy: Talk a little bit about your sovereignty prediction and then we'll, we'll, we'll wrap it up.

[00:55:08] Brian: yeah. Okay. 


[00:55:09] The Battle for Sovereignty and Media Independence
---

[00:55:09] Brian: So I, I think the battle for sovereignty is. You know, I talked about this for, for 2020, about 25, and it, it is, it is going into 2026 because all individuals and companies are trying to find a way that they can establish some form of sovereignty and not be held to the whims of larger systems in which they operate within.

and that's why, you know, for all the wonders of YouTube, operating within that ecosystem, you, you have a lot of trade-offs, right? And, those who can are going to claw. Claw back as much sovereignty as they can rather in, in media, rather than try to operate within the whims of, of these systems.

It's gonna be really difficult if you're like a web, a publisher who's whose, whose main atomic unit is webpages. You know, you don't have a ton of sovereignty. but individuals will, will try to find ways that they can, establish some degree of sovereignty, in, in the marketplace. And that's where I go back to like legibility.

It's like, you know, we've seen time and again that the pathways that, you know, we were always told to take, have all of a sudden, you know, been closed off. So I think that leads to a reassessment of how much you can trust institutions. And we've seen this, that more people will look to, to exit to some degree and to find a way that they can be autonomous.

so I believe that we will see that and it's an ongoing struggle. 

[00:56:46] Troy: You know, the king of quote, unquote first principle thinking Elon Musk, did something that seemingly was of consequence, but is maybe a harborer of things to come. Certainly was really about interface and, the removal of friction in connecting,a content creation, you know, portal X to ai.

And so, I don't know if you saw this, Brian, but it was about putting the, the grok remix button on every single image on x. So, you know, not something that you couldn't do by simply taking an image and going to a gen AI image processor and, you know, manipulating it however you want. obviously you can do it in lots of ways, but now you can take any image in the feed, press a button, and you can put, you know, a OC in a bikini, or you can, you know, you can do whatever you want.

And there's been, you know, a lot of uproar for good reason because there's, you know, people do really tasteless things, when they can. and there's

lots of idiots everywhere, 

[00:57:56] Brian: Well, I mean, go figure. I mean, who, who could have seen that happen? 

[00:57:59] Troy: on 

[00:57:59] Brian: But this is also human. This is human sovereignty. Like you, like do you, do you not have a a right to be able to exist in this world without some creep, like taking your clothes off virtually and then like posting it on the internet.

Like, again, like I go back to the existing society that we want. 

[00:58:16] Troy: Yeah. And in other ways it seems like, a complete inevitability, 

[00:58:22] Brian: I know, I'm like torn on it because I'm like, there's no way that, you know, it's kind like, you know, I, I, I understand the arguments that will be made like in favor of it. I, I find them gross, but I understand that, that they, they will be made for sure. You know, they're just gonna say, oh, okay, well, you know, people have been thinking that all the time.

This is just a human thinking. This, ugh.

[00:58:44] Troy: on, anyway, I, I, I just think it's important for so many reasons, not the least of which is, you know, the decisions we make with interface are just the most important things that we do now because that changes behavior

[00:59:00] Brian: Do you think there's a possibility that we have a return of like ethics? Because I, I think about this. 'cause Victor, do you know Victor Wema? He's a really tall French guy. he's, he's probably the best basketball player on the planet, right now. came out with this idea of ethical basketball and basically it's, it's, it's an answer against all the flopping and the James Harden stuff of basketball has gone through its own optimization phase where everything has become over optimized.

I mean, I'm a big Sixers fan, but watching Joe, yeah, he's like seven foot five, but he's got, he's, he's European, so they, they actually, you know, teach them to play basketball. Like even if they're super tall. I think he does read books. Yeah, he's, he's very articulate. and so he wants to come up with ethical basketball.

He, he says the Spurs are doing a version of ethical basketball. they're moving the ball. They're unselfish. They're not just trying to get to the foul line. And they're not just, you know, grinding the stats. They're playing basketball, quote unquote, the right way. And I, and, and you know, you see, it's a very European, concept.

I think, you know, there's a lot of like unwritten rules in, in soccer and, and European sports like, that we don't have, like in American, in Amer, in our American style. and I think that could be a thing that makes a comeback. I, I, I would like to, because, you know, we get all into like regulations.

We can't regulate, we can't regulate. A lot of this stuff is just gross, you know? And like, it shouldn't take like the government to quote unquote regulate it. You know?

[01:00:24] Troy: Yeah, I, you know, one thing that it made me think, what, as you were talking about that is the notions, the notion of ethics. In relation to kind of transparency and if there's anything that I thought was seemingly I, I guess, ethical about our forays into Venezuela, it was at least we weren't lying about our intention. 

[01:00:48] Brian: that was a 

little 

[01:00:49] Troy: to be,

it was, yeah, like we want the oil, we're gonna run the country. We'll give it back when we say so we have all the power. And at least it

[01:01:00] Brian: Yeah. It wasn't a crusade for freedom.

[01:01:02] Troy: right? We're bringing 

[01:01:05] Brian: We like, no, we don't. Yeah, no. That is, that is, that is true. But I do think it's like, there used to be a, so there should be a social cost to Elon Musk for his, you know, grok. Undressing, A OC. Like there should be, like in, in a healthy society, I do believe that there are, there are curative functions that are not part of the state.

and perhaps there is, is a bit of a return to that. maybe I'm being too, too moralistic, but,

Do we have a good product of 2026?

[01:01:36] Troy: We 


[01:01:37] Good Product
---

​

[01:01:39] Troy: my good product, you know, I, I, by the way, I watched with interest, it was maybe one of the best football games of the year was on Sunday, and it was the Pittsburgh Baltimore game. And it was, it was, it, it was really an incredible game. And one thing that I noticed afterwards is apparently a.

Pittsburgh's a real, football town. They love their Steelers and so does the church. Apparently it's also a very Catholic town. And before the game, a Catholic priest came out with like a little plastic water bottle and sprayed the end zone with holy water. which, I guess wouldn't surprise you as a, as a Catholic

[01:02:20] Brian: that's like 

[01:02:21] Troy: that seems perfectly normal.

I guess

[01:02:23] Brian: That was an enduring image of COVID of a, of a Catholic priest, baptizing a child with a water gun.

[01:02:28] Troy: yeah, well, in this case, what was even more interesting about it was the, layup of a field goal from the 40 yard line that would've won the game for Baltimore was. You know, mysteriously wide. And, many, many people in Pittsburgh would attribute it to that, that act of,of, of faith, of spraying down the end zone.

So,

um, something something to watch.

[01:02:55] Brian: I'm not sure if it's accurate, but it's cool.

[01:02:57] Troy: well, you know, you look for things, you wonder, you know, what's, you know, when my kids are, are, are a little bit older now, and as you know, Christmas come around, all the sort of childhood traditions of, you know, opening gifts and the tree and all that stuff are, are less important.

One thing I did this year that was. You know, meaningful and, and surprisingly so was I took them all to see, we're all kind of Bills fans. And we went to Buffalo to see the game against the Eagles. So it was, and, you know, a huge, huge effort to get to the crazy insane JFK airport, wade through the crowds, get on the plane, get to Buffalo, you know, check into the hotel.

[01:03:42] Brian: It was pouring rain. And, we bought, you know, these kind of buffalo Bills, garbage bags. I had jeans on. We, we went briefly to the, the, the tailgating, which is like Burning Man. It's insane. And, we sat in rain for three hours and watched our team lose. And my kids all reported back to me, Brian, that it was one of the best things that we've ever done together.Beautiful thing.

[01:04:10] Troy: I, I, you know, NFL as, You know, as a kind of center to, to fandom and community is an incredible thing. The game of football's great. we gambled for sure. this idea of sports tourism is a big thing for me, and we're gonna do it more often in 26 and 27. We're, we're gonna try to see, more games on the road and use it as an opportunity to kind of hang out 

[01:04:35] Brian: Yeah. Yeah. It's a great, a great excuse. I know when the, when the, the Eagles,

[01:04:40] Troy: the schedule just came out, you know, everyone sort of looks at it to see where. Warm, the warm weather place. This is also another reason you mentioned Pittsburgh. Being a great sports town, you basically can't have a great sports town if you have great weather, like you ha there's trade-offs to everything in life.

[01:04:56] Brian: If you live in San Diego, you're gonna have shitty sports scene. If you live in Miami, forget it. Like, you know, because he, if you live in LA also forget it. A terrible sports town, maybe

[01:05:09] Troy: I'm dying to go to, to see a game at SoFi.

[01:05:11] Brian: Really?

[01:05:12] Troy: Yeah, that's a spectacular

[01:05:15] Brian: So like Dorian, like, so a game at, at SoFi. Okay, so if, if, if God, God willing, the, the eagles, it's not gonna happen. 'cause his offense is terrible. Get to like the finals against, against the Rams and they go to SoFi. Half the stadium, the, the Rams are gonna have to do a silent count at home because half the stadium is gonna be the Eagles fans.

I mean, going to watch the Eagles in late January in LA versus being in Northeast, Phil. Forget it. You just book the trip.

[01:05:44] Troy: I bumped into a lot of, a lot of Eagles fans and they were, you know, I thought they were gonna like, beat me up. They were, they were great.

[01:05:51] Brian: Okay, good. Yeah, there's a lot of knuckleheads, but they don't, they don't travel, I don't think, I don't think they, they're not, they're not dropping, they're not going to, they're not going to SoFi. They're not even going to, to, to Buffalo. They're, they're staying at home.


[01:06:04] Outro
---

[01:06:04] Troy: That's it for this episode of people versus algorithms where each week we uncover patterns shaping media culture and technology. Big thanks as always to our producer, Vanja Arsenov. She always makes us a little clearer and more understandable and we appreciate her very, very much. If you're enjoying these conversations, we'd love for you to leave us a review.

It helps us get the word out and keeps our community growing. Remember, you can find People vs. Algorithms on Apple Podcasts, on Spotify, and now on YouTube. Thanks for listening and we'll see you again next week.

Alright, Brian, good to see you. Safe 

[01:06:40] Brian: right. Good to see you. Okay.

Thank you, Troy. Bye. 

