PVA S1E46
===


[00:00:00] Cold open
---

[00:00:00] Brian: I'm in Belgrade, Serbia. the Hilton here.

[00:00:02] Troy: Nice.

[00:00:03] Brian: been here since Saturday. Go to Croatia on Thursday. Balkan tour, Slovenia.

[00:00:08] Troy: in Belgrade? Have you got family in Belgrade?

[00:00:11] Brian: Yes. my wife is a native ian. hanging out

[00:00:14] Troy: they don't put you up when you're there. Do you have to stay in a hotel?

[00:00:17] Brian: Yeah, we're staying in a hotel. That's my choice. 

[00:00:19] Troy: if anyone is thinking about a vacation, I recommend, Belgrade, Serbians are very hospitable people. It's a very interesting city.

[00:00:27] Brian: you go to a lot of cities in Europe these days, and it seems like there's more Americans than Italians in Rome or Portuguese and Lisbon. Belgrade is not that way. You get to see

[00:00:36] Troy: like Italy, it's America's playground.

[00:00:38] Brian: your elbow to elbow with Serbs and, it's good. I've enjoyed

[00:00:42] Troy: them tall? Are they very tall?

[00:00:43] Brian: they're massive.

They're massive people. I'm the size of a, large child here basically.

[00:00:47] Troy: Hmm. Well you dress like one, so

[00:00:49] Brian: Yeah, so it's good. It's, it's fitting. 

[00:00:51] Troy: How's the food?

[00:00:51] Brian: food's. Great. It's very meat heavy. If you don't like meat, I wouldn't come actually here at all. have you ever had shavai?

[00:00:57] Troy: No, what's up?

[00:00:58] Brian: They're the little like kebab sausages. I describe 'em as the buffalo wing of the Balkans. 

they have a lot of like barbecue places. like grill places, so it's grilled in like a charcoal grill and it soaks in the flavor. the ottoman influence here is heavy. 

is there a lot of evidence of, American commercial imperialism

there's McDonald's, there's 

[00:01:18] Troy: everywhere? Yeah. Okay. just like paint a picture for us. 

you're sitting around the table and are they out of respect speaking English to include you.

[00:01:25] Brian: No, no. it's almost entirely Serbian. they'll like break into English don't know, Serbian, I know words, I know phrases. I can sometimes pick up the mean part of the conversation, but, I couldn't

[00:01:36] Troy: So you what? Do you just sit there and kind of sadly and get drunk? What? What do you do?

[00:01:41] Brian: no, I just hang out. get included. I don't insist that they change just 'cause I don't know Serbian, 

[00:01:46] Troy: No, I get it. But did they demonstrate affection for you?

[00:01:49] Brian: Yeah. I'm a national hero here.

I mean,no, they don't. I don't know. You'd have to ask them. Maybe they can come on the podcast later. Milan Mira, if you're listening, you're welcome on the

podcast. I 

[00:01:59] Troy: in when Alex gets the dial in functionality, we could

[00:02:02] Brian: yeah, we should. We should address why Alex isn't here.

[00:02:04] Troy: because he said he was floating down a river or something like that.

[00:02:07] Brian: He's camping, which is super European.

[00:02:09] Troy: He likes that. He always, always done that. Ever since I met him, he is always been a camper.

That was a warm little ketchup though. That was nice. It's nice to see you.


[00:02:16] Welcome start
---

[00:02:38] Brian: Welcome to People Versus Algorithms, a show about patterns in media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Marcey, founder of the Rebooting, and I'm joined this week by Troy Young, longtime media executive and investor. This week Alex is off camping. I'm in Belgrade and Troy has a cold. In addition to making my case for Belgrade as an underrated travel destination, Troy and I discussed something that's lurked in the background of many of our discussions over the months of doing this podcast.

Can publishing work as a scaled business? I've found over the years that particularly Americans assume that the only path for a business is scale. There's an unquestioned fealty to the nostri that if you aren't growing, you're dying. And that's somewhat true. Stagnation does lead to atrophy, but I can't help but look at the current set of realities and come to any other conclusion that maybe the publishing industry will end up looking differently.

The internet has been an unmitigated disaster for most publishing businesses, at least compared to the analog days, and this is going beyond publishing to the more lucrative forms of media. Just look at the struggles Hollywood is having as it adapts to the new economics of streaming the weaknesses.

That we're seeing in the ad market while abating somewhat are in contrast to strong results from Google and Facebook in the two big growth areas in advertising streaming and retail media. Those dollars will come from somewhere and you can be sure that some of that will come from publishers', current ad businesses.

What's more digital advertising is a mature market now. It is no longer the case that marketers are overspending on analog media channels compared to digital. One estimate I saw is that two thirds of ad spending is now digital. That Mary Meer slide can now safely be put in a time capsule. I. And this is why I believe that we're seeing structural changes to the digital ad market, not just the cyclical speed bump.

when I look around, the most promising models tend to be narrower and smaller. Niche is now celebrated. And that's funny to me because niche was always used as a pejorative. It's like telling someone that they have a lifestyle business. The implication of both are that what you're doing is cute, but not very ambitious perhaps.

But let's look at the scoreboard. The scaled models of the previous generation have nearly all failed. The New York Times is a juggernaut and an exception to nearly every norm. There will not be 10 New York Times, and I'm not even sure if there'll be three or four. The most promising models that I see tend to focus on elite audiences, audiences of business or political decision makers.

Lifestyle segments that lend themselves to commercial transactions or front operations for other more lucrative businesses in completely different categories. The emphasis on direct audiences after a generation of chasing platform algorithms to rack up big comScore numbers and three second video views is by definition of smaller approach.

That will necessitate what Troy might call a refactoring of organizations. These models require doing more with less the layers of EVPs. Advice media won't be repeated. Building mass newsrooms to pump out filler content of a series of embedded tweets for page views is already a blast in the past.

Publishers will need to find leverage in their models by covering just as much ground with fewer resources. Think about newsletters and podcasts. These are typically built by one person or a couple of people that provides leverage that simply doesn't exist within a larger enterprise. I hope you enjoy this conversation and please give us a hand leaving us a rating and a review of the podcast on Apple or Spotify.

I wanna, in particular, thank, Z Davis, two who wrote on Apple a criminally underrated resource. Brian, Alex and Troy, that's the correct order. Have great chemistry and experience that comes out in their discussions. They're able to discuss current events in the media world with an eye towards the structural forces at play as someone working in a smaller media company without someone to talk shop with.

These guys provide. A better parasocial relationship than LinkedIn. Oh my God, he sees going into LinkedIn. I just wish there were more ads in all earnestness. Please keep it up. Look, Z Davis two I'm working on the ad front. We gotta see what we can do. I gotta get Alex on board with reading an ad or two.

Anyway, send me your feedback too at, brian@therebooting.com. enjoy the conversation.


[00:06:26] Welcome end
---

[00:06:27] Brian: let's get to the topic at hand. this is something I've been thinking about, doing a newsletter about, are you still publishing your newsletter? I don't see it a lot. What's going on?

[00:06:33] Troy: I've taken a bit of a summer break and I'm, I'm glad I have because I've been reflecting on, Kind of what I want it to do and whether I like the sort of essay style that I have,done for 70 issues. I'm thinking of breaking it up a little and I don't think that people really need a newsletter in the depths of summer anyway, 

I'll get back to it in the next week or two.

[00:06:51] Brian: I did one last week on like events and people, people love events. anytime I've written about events and I've done like a trillion events in my career, it's like very popular. anyway, I wrote about events because. I'm sure you've noticed like a lot of media companies.

B two B has always been, mostly events as a monetization tool. and it seems like a lot more publishers are leaning on events, not as an incremental, but as a main part of their, revenue portfolio. when you start to get up to like 20, 25% of your revenue, or higher that's not incremental.

That's like a big chunk and. In some ways, I think it's like a testament to the weakness of the typical big drivers of, media companies and publishers. because as you pointed out when I, brought it up, I guess last week, how are you gonna scale hundred million dollars company with events being 40% of your revenue?

And so it sort of got me thinking of something that I, I want to do this week. So maybe have some ideas since. you're not publishing at all. Guess you can help me publish, because I just, keep going. Troy. It's a mark of a true professional, whether people are reading or not, I'm publishing.

[00:07:53] Troy: your newsletter is what drives your revenue, not, it's

[00:07:56] Brian: I don't do, I don't do this for money. I do this. No, I do it for money. What am I saying? I, I 

[00:08:01] Troy: but I am a little worried, to be honest. I am a little worried that pulling myself out of it for a few weeks, has, created some inertia Because getting one out every week, was, as I always lamented to you, was,a bit of an effort. 

there's another thing though.

I've not been super inspired by the things that I'm, like, I, I just haven't felt oh my God, I gotta write about this because I don't wanna write about X and I don't wanna write about, The troubles at c n N I'm trying to figure out where I go next with it, to be honest with you, and where I have something that I can uniquely contribute because there's so much reporting, particularly in media I wrote this to you when we were talking about what we were gonna talk about this week.

I found it amusing that the little spat around the. Variety. Tanya Siegel's sort of counterpoint on, the endless, reporting on C n N, particularly from Puck and then the big,

[00:08:51] Brian: Oh yeah.

[00:08:51] Troy: big bomb from the Atlantic 

at one point, John Kelly, who you know, I think is a very, very smart guy, he had said that, through puck's reporting of c n n, they had elevated it to sort of popular culture or something like the drama inside of c n N.

They wrote something like 50 stories about,

[00:09:07] Brian: At least

[00:09:08] Troy: the turmoil and,

[00:09:09] Brian: that variety 

piece. Tatiana

Siegel, she actually counted up how many times. Dylan wrote about C N n.

[00:09:14] Troy: Yeah. And then, you know, went Adam for being, connected to Zucker. and then there was a whole bunch of really weird anecdotes about, accusations that were made about, Jeff Zucker trying to raise money to buy C N N. And then his team, dismissed these and said, we never said that.

So there was all

[00:09:32] Brian: Yeah, no, I know. It was like detailed reporting with very specific

names and stuff, and 

then it was 

like never happened.

[00:09:38] Troy: happened. Yeah. Never happened.

[00:09:40] Brian: like,

wow. Well, 

this 

is like, 

there are a lot of, details. 

[00:09:42] Troy: right, there's a lot of bad things happening in the world, or interesting things ranging from, climate change to ai, to nukes, this is what we have to spend time on, ar arguing endlessly about what's going on inside of a deteriorating news cable company.

[00:09:56] Brian: Right. So I want to do something different, and this is, so maybe you can help me figure out this thing is entering into likea more with less era. we're seeing this like in publishing In particular, but I think it's, it's gonna happen in all forms of media is there are structural weaknesses to these models that aren't cyclical.

It's not coming back in the same ways I don't think. and when you look at. The meta results. When you look at Google's results, first of all, it's kind of hilarious. Not hilarious, but like they cut how many employees their stocks are like ripping, meta is up 11% at that scale. That's like amazing, Google is doing just fine and they're 

[00:10:37] Troy: Well, they're up 11. Go meta's up 11. The market is projected to be up six, so someone's getting hurt.

[00:10:42] Brian: and now they're 

[00:10:43] Troy: And nobody I talked to in publishing is anywhere near six. So clearly there's share, shifts happening. Yeah.



[00:10:49] Brian: the a t T and all the Apple stuff, sort of hurt them for a little bit and then now they're just, they're applying AI to ads. They're gonna be able to like, write the ads, conjure up the image and stuff. man, this is like rough, for publishers.

So you got digital ad weakness, probably structural, not cyclical. more competition. It's a mature industry. The data stuff open. Programmatic is a disaster for most publishers at this point. subscriptions marginal for many categories. I just do not see how Conde NAS supports that cost base with $10 subscriptions to Vogue.

Like I just don't see it 

[00:11:27] Troy: Yeah, subscriptions are sort of antithetical to much of, the lifestyle category because, I'll read a Vanity Fair post, but It's too infrequent and not deep enough for me to consider subscribing. And I think it's, the challenge is more profound in broader lifestyle categories like, women's fashion or entertainment or, home those categories.

the content is widely available for free. So if you're gonna charge someone for it, you're gonna have to be extremely relevant, extremely deep. and demand a huge kind of portion of, of the mind share of the reader or be really necessary to drive subs. So what happened, and I did this, so I, saw it, is that you try to, create a, hybrid model between.

Managing scale, keeping scale up. 'cause that's where you're bread's buttered. You gotta keep the business going and then trying to section off parts of the feed to a subscription proposition and then throw some other goodies into the bag. In many cases, the most important goodie was like, Hey, and we'll give you a magazine.

and, yeah, I think it's tenuous so you get a lot of churn. And it's really hard to acquire folks. And so it just represents a small part of the business. 

Brian, I wanted to get your take on. So one of the, things that I think they consciously do at Puck, and I think se four tries to do it as well, is really just kinda rush the show as a media strategy, which is we want to go so deep and, on a particular, company and period and conflict, that we become kind of the voice in that area and that the people involved become characters that the audience can get attached to.

And as such, News becomes drama, I don't know, Chris Licked, I'm sure he's a fine person, whatever, but may not be, I don't know. But he becomes, more than, the guy that worked at cnn, he becomes a character in this storyline that Puck is creating.

And so the one thing about digital publishing is that because it's so hard to distinguish, your content, your, voice, your feed that, you know, really, really dive bombing one, particular story and owning that is a really useful strategy. 

[00:13:32] Brian: I mean, it's not totally 

new. 

[00:13:34] Troy: It's 

not new. I think Daily Mail does it in their own way. Right. But they, they do it in a different way

against crime stories and 

[00:13:40] Brian: how Rains the old, New York Times editor had a great phrase where it's like flood the zone.

It's like, let's flood the zone and there's particular stories, depending on what your purview is, is you've gotta own it. Like in a newsroom, you're just like, we have to own this.

I used to say like, too too many. Not too, too few. if we write like too, too many stories on this and, people are like, what the hell? Then okay, can live with that. Don't like undercover certain things. And then the the second piece, which is, something I remember Michael Wolf would always say to us, he was like heroes and villains.

He was like, that's what people want. They want heroes and they want villains. And so find the hero and find the villain. that's like a very wolf in I think, approach, but I think that is particularly in media coverage. It's very pronounced, the heroes and villains part. And also Dylan was like a little bit of a protege of Michael Wolf.

[00:14:31] Troy: Yeah.

So that's what 

was going on. 

[00:14:33] Brian: he was at Adweek. I don't 

[00:14:34] Troy: Meanwhile, people's lives are caught up in that, it just becomes a drama that really affects, their prospects, their lives, their careers. 

[00:14:42] Brian: Yeah, I don't think Semaphore does that as much. Do they?

[00:14:45] Troy: No. I think Ben likes a gotcha though, for sure. He likes, break the news, and

then 

tear 

[00:14:49] Brian: Oh yeah. he's a news hound. he's a news obsessive, he's a scoop machine guy. there's a lot of places that are that way. I think journalism overall has, And it's long had, a obsession with scoops that is more internal.

and to the profession then, Twitter made it so obvious. The embarrassing thing was like, you can't call this exclusive. We had this three minutes before, and it's like, oh my God. a PR person gave this to you. what are you doing? don't do this, don't, don't do this in public, don't do this to yourself.

nobody caress, for the most part. But I get it from a professional standpoint,I used to on a very. Sort of inconsequential scale. I used to always overhear the reporters at Adweek who were trying to, break the, five finalists for the Pennzoil c r m review. back when that was like the currency of it.

It's like we've got three out of the five finalists. And I'm like, okay, outside of the seven people who are up for this, like literally no one caress. nobody caress, but It would take banging the phones like nonstop to get that and then adage would get it and then it was like rush to match adage and I was always sitting in my cubicle saying shouldn't we just do something different rather than we try to like match adage 

they already have it.

It's like, good for you, you got the Pennzoil one. We'll try to get you, next time when, I don't know, Pampers has an account up. Good times.

[00:16:06] Troy: I

think that those pubs are struggling for relevance right now.

[00:16:10] Brian: Adweek just, decapitated their leadership. They just got rid of their C E O and their, chief content officer, who, I don't know either of them. 

[00:16:17] Troy: it's funny,that was such a vibrant category. I remember how you remember how thick that age used to be, when it was in print we all loved reading it. those pubs, they ought to be, I. It's vertical B two B publishing. There's gotta be something there.

the entertainment oriented publications like Variety and Hollywood Reporter have done much better

than the ad, focused ones 

[00:16:36] Brian: Adweek has been, traded off of different private equity firms, take a, take a crack at it. that's never good. They, they've had whiplash so much internally there that I think people are traumatized to some degree. And I was traumatized when my cubicle was shrunk.

I don't appreciate that at all. but that was many years ago. Water under the bridge,

[00:16:54] Troy: maybe there's room for your alma mater to sort of, soak up some of that space, they're sort of the view from middle management over a digit day. It's almost intolerable as a read.

[00:17:03] Brian: Ah, that's, that's a good one. yeah, I let them own that one. 

[00:17:06] Troy: the view from is your franchise. I do that with,

only, with your permission.

[00:17:10] Brian: Air Serbia. I took the view from econ. it was bleak. Do you know what someone 

[00:17:13] Troy: Uh, 

[00:17:13] Brian: behind me?

[00:17:14] Troy: well, the thing is, is that like those Eastern European airlines, they don't do food very well. 

[00:17:18] Brian: no. No. It was some kind of goulash or, no, I got a, like a barbecue chicken or something like that. It wasn't very good. I will say this, they have a very terrible, hard product. generally, they lease their airplanes a lot the quality of the hard product, the seat and stuff's not very good, but their soft product, the services and stuff are incredibly good.

And I think it's because it's a good job for a lot of people, working for the airline and stuff. And so I think that they, have, a superior soft product in many ways. that's a little view from econ, anyway, this woman she started playing sex in the city I guess it was, depending on where you're coming from, but it was basically like in the middle of the night.

The shades were still down she was doing it on her iPad with sound on right behind me. 

[00:17:59] Troy: a little inconsiderate.

[00:18:00] Brian: I nearly became like an, airline rage person, there's no

[00:18:04] Troy: Well, I can, I'm sure you said something to her, didn't you?

[00:18:07] Brian: I didn't, I was awakened and I took my eye mask off and I might've, cursed a little bit, but. I did the head up and looked over they were a little older, and so I was like, geez, I can't be like cursing at all people. I felt bad about it, basically.



[00:18:21] Troy: I've seen you when you're Irritated. So it, wouldn't surprise me if you did actually, but,

[00:18:25] Brian: Oh, whatever.

[00:18:26] Troy: Was your wife with you?



[00:18:27] Brian: She was with me, but she was in business class.

[00:18:31] Troy: how did that work?

[00:18:32] Brian: we book our travel separately and she booked it. And I was like, I'm not paying for the, the business class. I'll be fine. maybe I'll get the upgrade at the airport, it's cheaper. premium economy is fine for me.

I'm not making that up. It's fine for me. straight 

[00:18:45] Troy: That's tragic. This is a sad story.

Come on, sit with your wife.

Spend the extra 500 

[00:18:51] Brian: I gotta just sell more ads. I'm trying to figure out this thing about whether the future in, in many ways is how do you do more with less?

and what that means for one, like how you build, a new. Business. 'cause this is something I talked about with Justin Smith. I didn't put in my piece, but he was, he was talking a lot about the sequencing of building semaphore and how, different It is building a publication.

With a big goal, But like that you have to sequence this very strategically, because you just cannot go out and, open up bureaus everywhere. and then the other one is how do you adapt old models assuming that there is this era of doing more with less, but how do you adapt old models to that?

[00:19:33] Troy: Is that a question?

[00:19:34] Brian: Yeah, that's a question I.

[00:19:35] Troy: Well, the sequencing one, where do you wanna start? I'm trying to, trying to organize my thoughts here. the sequencing one is, in the context of a news org, where you aspire to report from different regions of the world is a big question. I'm assuming they prioritize the markets where you can actually make money.

sequencing, you have to sequence your costs with your revenue, right? So you're gonna start in the US

[00:19:56] Brian: if you don't make it in the US you get no shot at the rest of the world. It's, the biggest market. Justin said like 60% of all of like global news, revenues in the United States.

[00:20:05] Troy: what was the other question? Which is after sequencing it was

[00:20:08] Brian: Well, I guess my, my point was, is like how do you, adapt old models? To a more with less model, and then we'll get to like, starting new models. I just believe that like, you stay as lean as possible, as long as possible. whereas before, I think starting new brands you wanted to like, make a big impact and, never have a launch party.

Launch parties are dumb. and now You just have to do far more with far fewer resources.

[00:20:34] Troy: Yeah, it seems to me that. The way you were doing it, although you seem allergic to having, a bigger company, but that you, 

[00:20:41] Brian: That's not true. 

[00:20:42] Troy: build a base and just kind of quietly start saying things that matter. and doing it in a low cost distribution channel, like email, and then, the one thing I'll build on the other, that's a fine way to build a, self-finance business.

I don't think it satisfies capital, as you and I have discussed. you wanna probably be more aggressive than that in terms of taking on additional verticals or growing revenue through a sales organization or, putting more money into events and stuff. it's all kind of irrelevant.

Meaning, you can sequence it how you want. You can either make it capital intensive or capital light, as long as you're fundamentally on a path where there's. A need for what you're making, an opportunity to do it better than someone else. An appetite from that set of consumers to engage with you and or pay you.

the funny thing about media is people will always keep trying new variations on the Venn diagram where it's, you know this, but it's this. It's this and it's this, it's,insights from the world of media and advertising, written in a way that is easier to read or formal or informal or whatever.

the great thing about media is it just keeps going and it's made afresh every day. it seems to me that what technology does is. It changes the way you enter a market, which is you can start at any time and you can kind of organically grow your position.

did Semaphore do that? I think there where you aspire to, the initial sort of, bombastic declaration that they would serve I don't know, 200 million people globally that want that kind of content. was just a kind of throwaway, but if you want to have a real newsroom there, I think it's a little different.

You need to, take a, a material amount of capital those guys are executing really well. I think the question will be, Is the fuse long enough to build a decent business? And is the business at the end of it gonna be worth, what capital expects it to be?

And you just kind of break it down for me. if you get the SEMA four newsletter, Do you like it? Do you read it every day? Does it become an irreplaceable part of your diet?

Does it take time away from ft. From Wall Street Journal? what's interesting there is, I would say that media companies have been way less effective at innovating that media type. So I love the ft, but FT doesn't have a good email product. Why doesn't it have a good email product? Is it because of its subscription? Is it because they don't wanna do it? Because, people don't think it's important. the Times has good email products. I would argue,

[00:23:10] Brian: Yeah, 

[00:23:10] Troy: the

journal doesn't. 

[00:23:11] Brian: they have so much resources that it's like the exception to everything.

[00:23:14] Troy: Yeah, are you trying to figure out what, the next formula is?

[00:23:18] Brian: Sort of, I'm trying to figure out, what are the points of like leverage in whatever is coming next, There's this decoupling going, like the ad business was never great for most digital publishers before. And it's never gonna even get as good as it was when people thought it was bad.

It seems to me, and a lot of the levers of the business are not only like, not working great now, it seems like it's structural, not cyclical in most cases. I don't know what the answer is. I don't know what the points of leverage are to build a scaled media company like you talk about what capital wants.

I don't think capital should be anywhere near most of these, particularly publishing, companies in that it's sort of a back to the future kind of situation where we're gonna have like tons of small publishers. Sure. 'cause you, you sort of dismissively say it, but like when people were like, oh, you're building a lifestyle business, which is it's totally like a backhanded like slap.

but tell me where the successes are. who is going to try to build, like what the new vice

[00:24:18] Troy: I love that pause. 

who's gonna try to build the, the new vice? first someone's gonna try to resuscitate the old vice, 

[00:24:27] Brian: Okay.

[00:24:28] Troy: yeah, I don't know. I don't know what the answer is. I, I know Is that, that's kind of where you started, right? It's like advertising has become, A scientific technical pursuit, requiring now not just huge amounts of data, but tons of technical expertise in scale I can't quite figure out why SNAP can't keep up other than because it's either, the surface area of the experiences they deliver are not good for advertising or they don't have the sophisticated technology to insert it in a way that works for people.

But all I've ever seen is that, performant advertising. Driven by, retail data sets or by the scale of social media or by Google, or if you have material amounts of, sort of time on a timeline because you're YouTube or some other, video driven platform. That's all kind of there is.

then the rest of the folks just do what we've always done, which is just fight for like, do what complex did this week and that long piece that, your friend at Adweek wrote about their partnership with Sprite or something like,

[00:25:30] Brian: Yeah, they're, they're bringing back the micro site.

[00:25:32] Troy: I think that's a business.

I just don't think it's a good business. we've really, explored these themes on this podcast a few times and haven't really come to anything that's kind of conclusive. We'll keep at it though.

[00:25:45] Brian: All right. is there anyone that you, out there that you think has a good model for what comes next?

[00:25:51] Troy: the problem I have with it is that, there's the thing you make and the thing that supports the thing you make, So the thing you make is the attention of the media consumer and the thing that. It supports it is either you're providing deep relevance to someone or associative value through, a partnership, and those are, If you have the right brand and the right audience but it's a small, smaller business.

You either have something that's incredibly necessary and as a result people pay for it. I like businesses like that. I can't think of any that are massive outside of The New York Times, and we should just set this aside, but it's sort of like the question of what you would do if you were in, I like the what would you do if, if you were the publisher of WaPo and then you have people that try to monetize through commercial activity, which is, any publisher that has material affiliate revenue or publishers that are entirely focused on it, like a NerdWallet or 

even Forbes advisor or, companies like that. those are really good businesses. Or then you have a really unique business like, Chris Kimball at Milk Street, which is a, a food focused media company, but the store is what makes it work and to make that store work, it's taken years of effort to, build and source your own products and.

Learn how to sell them. that's as much about being a, kind of merchant as it is being a, a media publisher.

[00:27:07] Brian: Yeah, but that's a, it's a, small business or at best, the media is a small part of what is, in essence, a front for a commerce business.

[00:27:17] Troy: yeah, what surprises me though when I kind of pull back on all of it, is, Still at the end of the day, I read a lot of content from established media brands. they're still a big part of my life. there's probably a line you can draw. This is where this gets interesting.

and you wrote about this this week in your newsletter, Brian, which is that and I'd love to learn more 'cause you, I didn't listen to the podcast, but were spending more on entertainment. Broadly, as consumers and, actors are getting less and the people that make the shows are getting less, the media companies that make the content are struggling, just to just take an isolated example. I probably read more stories now from Vanity Fair than I read when they published a magazine. I would get the magazine monthly and I would read a couple stories in it, I'm sure I read more than that from Vanity Fair now, so they get more of my attention. But, the business is worse,

[00:28:09] Brian: Yeah, well, attention on a phone is not equal to attention in a magazine 10 years ago.

[00:28:15] Troy: Okay. Fair enough. But it's analogous to the thing. The first question, which is, what did you learn about, who was the gentleman you had on

[00:28:22] Brian: Andrew 

Rosen. 

[00:28:23] Troy: Yeah. Andrew was talking about the sort of curse of the streamers.

[00:28:27] Brian: Yeah.

[00:28:27] Troy: Like, it's just a bad business model.

[00:28:29] Brian: Yeah. It's a bad business model. 

[00:28:30] Troy: So, it's kind of the same thing. We're getting more, as consumers, I'm getting more news, more point of view, more lifestyle content that I could ever imagine. but it's a harder time to be a publisher now. it's been spread across more people or somebody else is just pulling out all the profits, which is prob, both are probably true.

[00:28:46] Brian: Yeah, I think his bigger point was that it was this move from a wholesale model to a retail model and that the people running these businesses were trained, they are good at, they are incentivized to run wholesale businesses and that they're probably the wrong people to run, retail businesses.

[00:29:04] Troy: there's much more to it than that. Meaning running a wholesale businessman, you could window content. You knew how to, kind of get the most out of all your distribution relationships. You didn't have the headache of dealing with millions of consumers and standing up platforms that dealt with them and all that stuff.

Is that the point?

[00:29:21] Brian: Y Yeah. And like the data there was a lot of unearned advantages that we've talked about on this podcast that a lot of media companies had. the data just shows that these were not completely earned. there's a reason that like Vanity Fair was, Able to make more money even though it probably had less attention when it was just a magazine, because the measurement sucked.

I don't know what else to say.

[00:29:42] Troy: Yeah, the measurement sucked. It was an oligopoly. you were one of four companies that had material budget allocations from a group of advertisers. yeah. There was no sort of performance imperative. you had incredible power on the supply side with celebrities and stuff because you were one of a few magazines that, could move culture.

I mean, all those things. if there's one thing in my mind at the end of this conversation, it's like, where can you draw a circle around a group of people and have a meaningful. Relationship with them. And if you can't do that, you don't have a media business and there's just fewer of them.

And so if you wanted that circle to be really big, you gotta do it in a category that's big. So you probably have to do it in news. And we know what that looks like, that's when it gets difficult. And so now what you're about to see is. a bunch more reporting on the messenger, which is trying to do that in a kinda retrograde way, right?

By saying, well, we'll just build up a big newsroom and get lots of page views and hire a bunch of s e o experts. there's a broadly a positioning, although, I guess it's center, right? Just the facts, Veggies and dessert together. kind of like entertainment news or salacious stuff with, all other types of news.

And, we'll see. We'll see if that's enough anymore, if that means that if they can take, volume from, New York Post.

[00:31:01] Brian: I don't know. I've written about this, I don't know if I'm like wrong, but it, it seems like even trying to build big models is like, why even try?

I put it as like the end of ambition to some degree, but it doesn't seem like there's Even a clear path to how this could work. I think that there's not gonna be fewer media companies or publishers. I think there's gonna be a lot more, I just think they're gonna be smaller.

They're smaller businesses and that's why you gotta be capital efficient. So maybe like the capital allocators could go allocate capital to more SaaS businesses. I don't know.

[00:31:30] Troy: and then you come back to your, where the conversation started, which is in the other piece you wrote on the pivot to events again, like they're gonna saturate really a lot of what you call events are really, about accessorizing ad packages. I pushed hard on our events business at Hearst and what I really wanted, we were very good at the kind of accessorizing events like. We're gonna do an issue, women in Hollywood for al, we'll do the event and we'll get the stars to come out. The event will be 150 people in Los Angeles Dom Peral and a couple fashion brands will sponsor it.

We'll run pages, blah, blah, blah. We'll create the media value around it and they'll be, at the event. And it was a great way to get people into the book and to drive, ad revenue. The events that we weren't able to do. Or that we're, a big leap would be any event where the consumer paid for something

[00:32:20] Brian: Hmm. 

[00:32:21] Troy: that's where it gets really difficult.

And that on some, in some ways is where, complexes success was quite remarkable. complex Con had a. big consumer facing event and it had, transactions inside. 'cause it was essentially a marketplace, had entertainment, had, conversations, talk, whatever. it was A real achievement by Rich and the team. there are fewer of those and those are harder to do. but the other events that you're talking about are really just sort of, there's a straight line between getting a list of people that downloaded a white paper and having dinner.

It's like the same thing.

[00:32:53] Brian: There's a lot of different types of events. I mean, they're on the B two B side, Washington is like a very vibrant,Their type of events. You know, they're small but also large, but they, a lot of them are, small influencer events. I think events are fine and, I think that they're a great way to, prove that your audience is, is more than an audience, and that they'll turn out for it and 

It's still an area, at least in business, that, people will pay, for. but it doesn't scale. And, it's a problem for that if you're gonna scale. I was hoping like you give me a roadmap to how you actually build a scaled media company.

now,

[00:33:25] Troy: I will, but you have to pay me.

[00:33:27] Brian: All right. Should we leave it there? 


[00:33:28] Good product
---

[00:33:31] Troy: I thought this was a funny idea. So people like my wife, love the idea of having chickens, like chickens in the yard. Okay. And I have no interest in having chickens because if we get chickens, like someone's gotta look after the chickens and then the dog will try to eat the chickens and then someone has to clean up, like feed the chickens and nobody wants to do any of

that. 

[00:33:51] Brian: they're filthy animals.

[00:33:53] Troy: yeah. But you know, it's pretty romantic to stroll out of the house. In the morning and grab the eggs. people like that idea. And it's fun. We got chickens, it's cool. So a friend of mine on Shelter Island said they had chickens. And I'm like, what do you mean you got chickens?

what are you gonna do with the chickens at the end of the summertime? And she was like, oh, they just come and get them. And I said well, where did you get the coop and like the feed and all that stuff. And she's like, oh, they just brought it all. So it turns out that there's a service called rent the chicken.com

[00:34:21] Brian: How.

[00:34:22] Troy: it's sort of like Uber for chickens.

Or maybe that's a bad example. You get the idea and you. Just go to rent the chicken.com and you say, I want some ready for farm fresh eggs. I'm in Long Island. Come and bring me the kit. They bring you, the coop and the feed and the chickens, and you pay them like a thousand bucks.

And you, keep the chickens for, the summer and at the end of the summer they come get the chickens.

[00:34:45] Brian: Wow.

[00:34:46] Troy: What 

do you 

think of that? 

[00:34:47] Brian: about doing this?

[00:34:47] Troy: the problem is my dog would go berserk, but I think it would solve the, problem that,

[00:34:52] Brian: Before you build a coop, you should probably run a chicken first. how you like, it 

can't hurt. 

[00:34:57] Troy: they bring you the coop.

[00:34:58] Brian: Well, that's what I mean, if you were gonna like.go to the trouble of building a coop and then getting the chickens and whatnot. you'd be very committed to the chicken lifestyle.

So did you see that video, that guy who, did we talk about this? Who decided to make a chicken sandwich from scratch?

[00:35:12] Troy: I thought that was awesome. He did the whole thing and did, he didn't seem very, excited about how it tasted at the

[00:35:17] Brian: No, No, but that, I think that was part of it, Yeah. Just disappointing. 


[00:35:20] Outro
---

[00:35:21] Brian: All right. I gotta go. I get to eat dinner. It's really late here.

[00:35:24] Troy: All right. Enjoy your

time in 

Belgrade. 

Are you happy to be there, Brian? You seem happy.

[00:35:28] Brian: Yeah. I like it here.

[00:35:29] Troy: meanwhile, Brian,today we didn't wanna talk about Elon. I do now think I've gone from sort of thinking that, One man's unstoppable energy, can move the world to just like, it's never gonna work.

Oh, you and Alex is not here for this. Save it for next week. It'd be good episode. I liked it when you called it Elon Derangement syndrome. That was funny. 



