PvA S3E145
===

​

[00:00:01] Brian: Hi, Troy. Welcome.

[00:00:02] Alex: you look great, Troy, but you gotta keep that mic closer to you.

[00:00:05] Brian: you should do it. Like what's his name? Liam Gallagher with, you know, he gets right up into the microphone. He puts the, his arms behind his back and he just leans into it.

[00:00:12] Alex: Imagine the roadie that has to pick up that microphone and clean it up. What do you think li and gag is? Breath smells like.

[00:00:17] Troy: Potatoes? 

[00:00:18] AB: I'm gonna go to 

Oasis. You guys should come. I'm gonna go to Oasis in Japan for 

[00:00:22] Brian: Oh my God. I'm in. 

[00:00:23] Troy: Good. Brian. You can see what It's like, to spend concentrated time with ab. 

[00:00:28] Brian: ​


[00:00:50] Welcome
---

[00:00:50] Brian: we get started? 

[00:00:51] Troy: where do you wanna start today, Brian?

[00:00:53] Brian: Well, first I wanna start with welcoming everyone to people versus algorithms. The show about media, technology, culture, ai, connecting the dots. I'm Brian Marcey, 

[00:01:03] Troy: everything. 

[00:01:04] Brian: Everything podcast. Joined by Alex Schleifer 

[00:01:09] Troy: and Troy Young and Ab, BAKA anonymous banker. bringing AB on for the whole episode?

[00:01:18] Brian: he's here. 

[00:01:19] AB: I can stay

on for just par a go. 

[00:01:20] Brian: No, gimme a 

[00:01:22] Alex: come on, 

This is the new all in. We already talked about going to Oasis in Japan, so are we taking the pj?

[00:01:29] Brian: Those

shows look amazingly fun. I mean, I haven't, you know, I, I just think it's a good, it's a good throwback and it's a good, it's a yet another example of why live events are gonna be massive and 

[00:01:42] Troy: Is it uncool? 

[00:01:44] Brian: Oasis, or going

[00:01:45] Alex: It's very cool.

[00:01:46] Troy: it

seems really uncool to me.

[00:01:49] Brian: what 

[00:01:49] Alex: never liked Oasis, so it's hard for me to say. I.

[00:01:52] Troy: I mean,

they got a couple hits and they're obnoxious and they're for people that don't really. Have a, you know, a like musical taste.

[00:02:02] Brian: Oh, here comes the snobbishness. Oh, it's fine. An Oasis concert is just fun. Some things can just be fun, Troy.

[00:02:08] Alex: Couple of hits that 

[00:02:10] Troy: Yeah. They're like, Abba, Abba for dudes, 

[00:02:12] AB: I mean, that's the, the, this song that everybody remembers is the one that they play at high school graduation, right?

[00:02:18] Troy: right? 

[00:02:19] Alex: I mean, it's not as uncool as Coldplay.

[00:02:21] Brian: But the thing is like they don't even have to sing. He just starts singing and everyone sings the entire song. It's great. It's a

[00:02:29] Alex: what happens when you only have four chords. Um,

[00:02:33] Brian: all the music snobs can hate on it, they're gonna make like a

[00:02:36] Alex: yeah, and I, I think, I think I'm still burnt because I was a Blur fan at the time and, and it was a Blur versus Oasis. It was the Michael Jackson versus Prince of its time. And Oasis definitely won.

[00:02:46] Brian: Yeah, all the snobs were like, no, blur is the best one. And like Oasis,

[00:02:50] Alex: It's it, I mean, it's better music, but yeah, maybe.

[00:02:53] Brian: It doesn't matter. The marketplace is the

marketplace. We got some, audience, feedback about the dynamics. I got, I got an email, from a listener who 

[00:03:03] Troy: Well, you, you come for the, you know, the, the topical information about media and marketing and gaming and all that, and you stay for the, parasocial dysfunction.

[00:03:15] Brian: exactly

the, the, the, the question was, is Troy actually a nice guy? Actually was 

[00:03:20] Troy: of

course he is. Dear listener, of course. I'm nice,

[00:03:23] Brian: and then there was a question about whether, whether Alex is on the spectrum or not.

[00:03:28] Troy: dear listener.

Yes.

[00:03:31] Brian: Yes. 

[00:03:31] Alex: I mean, I think Troy's a nice guy until you ask him a thing like, Hey, can we, uh, do some planning for next podcast? Or, Hey, are you gonna be in New York on those dates? Then he turns into a fucking monster.

[00:03:45] Brian: no, Troy won't come into New York during the summer. That's a snobbish thing.

Like, like, not, like not liking Oasis. It's like being, being in Manhattan isn't cool during the summer.

[00:03:55] Alex: But I'm coming to New York, 

[00:03:57] Troy: That's why we'll see you. I'm gonna actually come in and see you, Alex,

about, uh, 

[00:04:01] Alex: Okay. 

Well, I'm, I'm flying tomorrow. So some, some plan. Plan would be, would, it would be great to have some, 

[00:04:09] Troy: planning. 

[00:04:10] Alex: I think just, just, on a neuro divergent thing, like, you know, I don't wanna, some people have real challenges with that. I don't want to, you know, kind of make a joke out of it.

But I am, I have, you know, there are two types of a DH ADHD and I have both and they're both like cranked up to 11. So Yes. So yes, I'm near, near 

[00:04:26] Troy: Hmm. 

[00:04:27] Alex: but I'm not on, on a spectrum. I think, I know, you tell me,

[00:04:31] Brian: Okay, so let's get into, I have a couple of quick hits and then we'll get into all 

the AI stuff.


[00:04:37] Vox Media
---

[00:04:37] Brian: Vox, Vox Media, c Jim Bko was recently on, with our friend Dylan Byers on his Grow Room podcast, which I think, wait, Troy's been on it. Ab B's been on it. Just Alex and I have not been on, um,

[00:04:50] Alex: not even mentioned. I'm the other guy,

[00:04:52] Brian: di Dylan's podcast. That's fine. That's no big deal. anyway, he did really

[00:04:56] Alex: eh, a little offended. I've been called Neurodivergent and the other guy in the last weeks.

[00:05:01] Brian: It's

[00:05:02] Alex: At some point it starts getting to you. 

[00:05:04] Brian: No, it's good. It's good. well look, you were the break, you, you were the breakout star until, until AB took

[00:05:12] Alex: That's true. Yeah.

[00:05:13] Brian: Blame him. 

Blame them. anyway, one of the things that I, I thought it was an interesting, discussion with Jim when they finally got into it. you know, he's, he's good at these things.

I always found, I, I always found him to be a very, you know, realistic and, and good conversationalist around this. But a lot of what they, they were talking about was basically Vox being almost like a half talent management firm. And I think this is, if anyone can actually pull this off as, as a legacy publisher, it seems like this is a very good lane to be in and to, to be able to do all the things that individuals are not gonna, for the most part want to do with, with building up infrastructure and building up distribution. but be able to like, make the economics work. ab I wanna start with you on this one.

Do you have any thoughts on like how publishers can nurture these kind of personalities and be able to strike business deals with them that are not like employment deals? 

[00:06:13] AB: Yeah, so I think there's a really good analogy I've heard last week, which is sort of like a sports team. Everyone has the same. Name on the front, right? Which is the, the team you're playing for. And then there's a, a select number of players where the name on the back matters more. And so I think for both sides, both the talent and the publishers, it makes sense to harmonize the relationship and let them earn value in other ways, but keep them as part of the platform.

as Kara shopped her podcast deal around with Scott, like they ended up going back to Vox because they realized, oh wow, this at sales team C actually had a lot of value. they know our product. And I think there's a lot of things Kara Canella get if she wanted to turn back on her conference. Vox has the team to do it.

And so I think more and more instead of the news releases being, Hey, I left this platform to go to Substack, it's gonna be like, oh no, this writer is allowed to write, or is is going to start writing on Substack or is gonna be doing other things. The podcasting has been around for a long time, but I think more and more.

People that have a real audience, they're gonna lean into creating other types of content and figure out ways of that they can additional money. Being a journalist where you're only writing editorial content that lives on a website and maybe in a newsletter for your main company is not that valuable and they can't pay you that much.

So the only way to make more money, it's by going into other media.

[00:07:34] Brian: Yeah. Troy, what's the bear case to this, to publishers actually being able to do this? 

[00:07:39] Troy: I love when you have a media question. Now you go to, the banker, sign of the time span.

[00:07:45] Brian: I'm just trying to mix things up. I thought AB B's 

[00:07:48] Troy: You're doing a good job. Jim KO's, like the, the last honest guy in media. I mean, he

just gives a, the only, he just gives, you know, a, a perfectly. You know, by the books interview praises all of his partners and his staff and, just comes off as being a great

[00:08:10] Brian: Yeah,

he took a shot at Barry Weiss and this idea that they would be get a 20 x valuation, but then he quickly said, 

[00:08:16] Troy: Yeah, I,

mean, he, he'll make little subtle points about him having to live by the rules of economics and stuff like that. I think, which,

you know, is in contrast to something like maybe the, I think it was in the context of a question about the Atlantic, which I believe is, is now profitable, but certainly had the loving hand of a philanthropist to get there. I think Jim's super smart. He is great. And, and, and listen, what does it mean to be able to blend, you know, a, a kind of media brand driven and talent driven company? I think it means that you, you have the complexity of managing union expectations around fairness. In compensation with what you need to pay, you know, breakout talent. You have to, you know, figure out. I think the, the hardest part about it is that if you're not careful, the economics get away from you. And after you pay for your operational overhead in your ad sales team and all that stuff, if you paid too big a chunk to the creator, you know, you can have a, a kind of mildly or totally unprofitable business.

So Jim's had to navigate that. He's probably done a great job. You saw the deal with Kara and Scott where they took 70% and he gets 30 for managing, you know, some operational bid and doing the ad sales. So those are kinda lower margin businesses and you gotta have other things in your portfolio that are higher margin to balance them out. But I think that creating an ecosystem that can support both, you know, hired help and talent is. The magic kind of van diagram and get on him if he's able to create it.

[00:09:59] Brian: Yeah, I mean, it's better to be talent than hired

[00:10:01] AB: One. Yeah. One nuance here too. There's at some of the places, so as we talk about this question, we think about Peter Kafka and Kara, but it's actually allowed some of the younger writers in cons, like creators of these places like big. Business Insider and Morning Brew where they've actually built content channels on other platforms like TikTok and Instagram.

And so it just, to me it's like a, a better way of like widening the top of funnel to get future subscribers because you have these journalists making shorter form content that can live in places where the younger audience is actually engaging and they recognize, oh, this person is a content creator that I really like, and they also write for Morning Brew.

Maybe I should subscribe to the newsletter. Right? So you don't have to just think of it as a normal care model. There's newer ones where some of these CRE people that are younger are actually getting their voice heard a lot sooner. They're not just having to sit there and be a staff 

[00:10:55] Troy: Yeah, good point.

Meanwhile, another media news, Meredith, the elegantly named, Alex's favorite company. I did get a note from Neil about Alex's joke, and he was, he said something very mean about Alex that I didn't share. 

[00:11:09] Alex: that's the, you know, that's a nice thing to do, to say somebody said something mean and then not share it.

[00:11:13] Troy: he thought it was fun. Well, yeah, I'm trying to protect you, Alex. He thought it was funny.

you made the crack about oh, he can get on another bike to nowhere or something like that.

[00:11:22] Alex: Well, that's when we were talking about, 

[00:11:23] Troy: yeah.

it was funny. But, you know, meanwhile, Conde Nas told the 

[00:11:27] Brian: Well, so wait, 

[00:11:27] Troy: y 

[00:11:28] Brian: rebranded dot dash Meredith. Let's just get the news out there. They rebranded to People Inc. Okay. So dot Dash bought, Meredith, which is the former Time Inc. Properties mostly that had bought Meredith and then they rebranded it from dot dash, to dot dash Meredith. And this is a corporate holding company for a bunch of different brands, including people.

And now they're going to People Inc. Which is sort of a nod to the timing 'cause Meredith was really Timing Inc. 

[00:11:58] Troy: but it's a nod to being anti AI and the fact that actual people make the content and apparently Barry Diller's idea. Nice idea. Actually. I like it. Good, good one, guys.

[00:12:09] Brian: Why is it a good idea?

[00:12:10] Troy: it's just simpler. Do dash. Meredith is kind of icky. Sounds like you're going to the

[00:12:14] Brian: It's a corporate name. 

[00:12:15] Troy: so people's nice. Got a nice ring to it.

[00:12:18] Brian: Okay, so congrats, 

[00:12:19] Troy: Meanwhile, today, Conde said, told the writers to get off Substack. Did

you see that news? Yeah. They don't want them, you know, freelancing on, on Substack.

[00:12:28] Brian: Huh?

[00:12:29] Troy: It's 

[00:12:30] Brian: That seems to be counter to, the direction that AB is advocating. Alex, we haven't heard from you. You gotta, you gotta, you gotta chime in. We got 

[00:12:39] Troy: He doesn't care about this though.

[00:12:40] Alex: Yeah, I don't wanna offend Neil.

[00:12:42] AB: I think we should go back.

We could talk about Subsecond,

see again.

[00:12:46] Brian: Wait, what did you say AB. 

[00:12:47] Troy: Uh, he's on this intimacy thing about Substack. Please don't indulge him. No, honestly, seriously, he can have a role in this podcast, but he can't start to like, have an agenda.

[00:12:57] AB: I have my Scott Galloway unifying concept of, of why people are having sex. So, who Conde Nas is not allowing people to write Substack.

[00:13:05] Troy: That's what I just

read. Just 

[00:13:07] AB: yeah. I mean, to me it's like pe it's not allowing someone to have a Twitter. I, I think that that policy will change really quickly. the other nuance with that policy, Troy might be, they might saying that for the staff writers, but a lot of the way that the magazines are put together is, is freelance, right?

So it's a weird thing for them to not allow their in-house talent. But some of the people that write a lot of the content for their magazines have their own subsets already. Or, or, yeah.

[00:13:33] Alex: it just means in essence, like you have to be becoming a freelancer is be, becomes a more attractive deal. Like you have more perks. Right, because you can 

[00:13:42] Brian: Well, if you're a freelancer, you can become talent, right? Like you don't want to be Troy's hired help.

[00:13:48] Alex: Yeah, 

[00:13:48] Troy: the key thing is, is that you manage control of the business deals around the media. So I had an example that I had to navigate a few years ago where a very senior editor at Hearst. Was striking deals on the side with, beauty companies to do influencer kind of stuff and advocacy stuff. And, you know, it was a, I I, I thought it undermined our business proposition for an, an editor of a publication to be able to go out and sell her services to, one of our clients. where, you know, it was obviously in our interest to have that client come through us. So I think if, if Jim's

[00:14:33] Brian: And oh, by the way, to capture most of the value on the arrangement.

[00:14:37] Troy: yeah. And that penny's on the dollar.

[00:14:39] Brian: God,

[00:14:40] Troy: So, you know, if Jim's gonna, you know, you're gonna pay for the talent, you're gonna want the rights to sell the media. 

[00:14:46] Brian: I mean to, to me it's just the. People are gonna wanna move to the talent side of the ledger than the hired help side. And, and that involves more risk and that, but that also involves, you know, if you're Kara Swisher and Scott Galloway, you're doing business partnerships. You're not like negotiating, your PTO. And, you know, there's upsides and downsides to both approaches. 


[00:15:09] New York Times
---

[00:15:09] Brian: wanna move on, New York Times, Amazon deal. We're starting to get numbers from some of these AI deals, and I think it is inevitable that these will, will be struck. and I think the big question ends up being what are the financial terms that are going, that, that they're gonna have. Apparently the New York Times, deal to license,or the Amazon deal to license New York Times content for AI training and summarize their articles in Alexa and whatnot is about 20 to 25 million a year. and yeah, this matches up with, some of the other sort of high profile deals. I think the, the biggest publishers are going to, be able to strike these deals.

I don't know about What about, obviously about all the publishers. what, what is your, I don't know. What do you think about this deal, Troy? Or the numbers, because I think that's the 

[00:15:56] Troy: Uh, what I think, I guess just thinking about it now, Brian, you don't mind if I call you Brian? Do you?

[00:16:02] Brian: No, please, Bri, Bri, guy. 

[00:16:05] Troy: Um

[00:16:06] Brian: I hate that.

[00:16:07] Troy: That was one of the comments in the, I don't know if you read it, Alex, or that was one of the comments in the, feedback from the Audi from that. I don't know who it was that sent that to you, Brian, that I address people like I'm I'm picking you to like a daddy.

[00:16:21] Brian: Oh yeah. Yeah. But that's your, that's your role to play 

[00:16:24] Troy: Yeah. Okay.on this, you know what it says to me, and it's, it's, it, it's this, it's a game where there's gonna be really big winners or significant winners, just like in kind of the new platform era, form era, the, the next generation of the platform era, which maybe we can discuss in a minute, but, you know, it doesn't hurt the New York Times to syndicate out their content and put 20 million in their pocket because, you know, I am a subscriber and I buy it for the bundle, and I play the games and read the headlines and, look at the food section. And if I see. You know, a snippet on Amazon or it's a, you know, wirecutter content is recommending a product, there or something. It, it's, it doesn't change the fundamentals of the relationship that I have with, with the New York Times. All it gives them is more, you know, gunpowder to build their business.

'cause they just added $20 million. So it's gonna be great for the flywheel, you know, original reporting, kind of big media, you know, publishing media brands like the New York Times and May, maybe a handful of others that strike these deals. And it just really fortifies their business. Few others will get something near this scale. And, you know, I I, I, I really do think it, it just really advantages, the scaled winners in, in the game.

[00:17:48] AB: Just to kind of tag on Win for New York Times, NewsCorp will sign a deal, like a few people will get these types of deals. The real flywheel here. So yes, it's an AI deal, but think about where else this content may show up. On, you know, Alexa, right? Like on all these different other ways that consumers currently engage with Amazon and, and the New York Times doesn't have a device in everybody's home.

And whenever it shows up in an Amazon environment, I'm sure as part of the steal, it's fraught to you by the New York Times, right? So if you get a good, if you get a good recipe, it should, in the consumer's mind say, oh my goodness, this was actually really the recipe. I want to go subscribe to the New York Times.

So I look at the $20 million is actually a nice to have, but the, the main goal of the New York Times and what you see in all of their earnings releases and, and the way that they talk to the market is we have this subscriber goal. That is in the future. And everything they do is to grow the subscribers to, to continue to do that.

And that allows them to continue to make better content. And so I think the reason why they do this deal is not for the 20 million, but more so to widen the ature of who knows about the New York Times and the quality content they produce because that's cooking and the athletic are two other places where maybe you don't agree with how they cover politics, but there's not Republican and Democratic cooking and sports.

There's a little bit of that. But I think the athletic has done a pretty good job of reporting on sports from the bottom up and not getting involved in the politics of sports. So I actually see the value here of having, of of, having the opportunity had a lot more subscribers back to the New York Times.

[00:19:28] Brian: and it's also a sign that, you know, brand still matters. And you know, thi this deal is about. The brand, they want the brand to, to be in these, these AI search results. One of the things that that strikes me is like, you know, you were talking about this being like, almost like a winner takes all game, right?

And we've seen this across the economy, but like, when we're going into ai, it just looks like it's going to, there's gonna be some companies, individuals that are gonna just uncouple from the sort of masses. 


[00:20:01] Meta Return
---

[00:20:01] Brian: And, I wanna tie this together with a few different things. Meta, return results. And I usually, I'm like, okay, yeah, results,

They

grew 22% revenue. I mean, this is $47.5 billion. This is not like growing from like a small 

[00:20:18] Troy: This is a company with a 49% operating margin. 

[00:20:21] Brian: Like it's, it's, it's astounding, right? 

[00:20:24] Troy: I 

[00:20:25] Brian: You're the numbers guy. AB is this astounding.

[00:20:28] Troy: well, I just want to, before AB does the AB

thing, The both of those numbers, the meta number and the Google number are just staggering. Google's quarter was $96 billion. Okay. They both run between 30 and 40% margins. Like they're, they're enormous, I mean, with

[00:20:46] Brian: These are better

businesses than Vox Media and People Inc.

[00:20:49] Troy: Well, I mean, NBC just announced and, you know, they're still losing money on their streaming service. So, and, and, and NB C's still kind of high on all the cable profits, even though they're in their kind of last, the last gas of life. So the, you know, what's amazing to me is we all kind of appreciated the platform power before, as. Kind of, you know, network effect benefactors, things that tied us all together without content costs, great repositories of data, incredible algorithmic driven ad machines that could pull money out of all parts of the kind of,media buying spectrum, small to large. Now they're gonna, like if you, if you saw that, I think I shared a piece with you guys from the FT on the scale of these data center investments.

By the way, I think that the annual number for Google, and, and you can check me on this, but CapEx is like $85 billion. And, but if you look at these massive, massive, like. Gigantic computers that exist in the middle of the country and in tech, like in Texas and in Virginia and in, in, in Ohio.

Like these are incredible facilities that can't be replicated, that have like, like just this kind of like so few people can participate in this. So in the case of Google, you're making the silicon. You own the data center, you own the data, you own the consumer interface. You have this brand, like these are insanely powerful and profitable companies. And just, I think this, this chapter where now they're all fueled by these gigantic physical facilities and, and you know, huge, huge amounts of compute that are impossible to replicate. Really give you a sense like that this kind of new techno industrial economy led by like four or five companies is, is really like a hegemony.

It's pretty, it's pretty crazy.

[00:22:55] Brian: Yeah, and

I think one of the things like a lot of attention has been paid to. Meta and even Zuckerberg personally going out there and, and putting out insane offers for AI researchers. I mean, I 

guess maybe they're not insane, 

[00:23:10] Troy: I mean, it's like paying Broca in a way, right? Because they don't pay broco. Alex, when I met you. It was all we could do to merchandise, social media as a place that advertisers would ever run their ads, because the idea of running against UGC wasn't a thing back then. 

And now, like the, the meta ad system is maybe one of the most important assets in the world. You know, their, their ability to, to, monetize a stream and decide what you get, and then, you know, slide ads inside of there. It's, it's profound. It's amazing

the 

transformation.

[00:23:51] Alex: I mean, this is why it's, always interesting for me to record these episodes because I live in Silicon Valley and the, and the sheer numbers and the scale of these companies is very, both like predominant here, but also has been so normalized that, numbers don't mean anything anymore and nobody's surprised that Meta can, like there's always been this joke where if meta has a bad quarter, they just need to flip a few switch switches so they can get a great quarter next year.

You know, 

[00:24:19] Brian: Well, that's

the Google thing. Google's been able to do that forever.

[00:24:22] Alex: and it's, it's important to think of these companies like the, the, the buffer that they have for things going completely wrong, right? They can spend billions on. All sorts of things. And it's a speed bump, for 

[00:24:35] Brian: W what about the Metaverse? How much money have they flushed down the

[00:24:38] Alex: I mean, precisely. Right. And I think that what we are looking at, we, you know, because we've been talking about talent, you know, we have to think of these engineers and, you know, and I was tech talent.

I was paid a lot more than I ever expected. I, I was a nerd that like computers, maybe new or divergent. So they made me happy. They were my friends. But all of a sudden, you know, I went from trying to drag everyone into forget advertising on social media, you know, putting your brand on the fucking internet, which, which felt dirty to a lot of people to, being headhunted, you know, and, and treat it like, like an athlete. and when you think of these talents like forget Broca or Kara Swisher, stuff like that. Once these people are gone, the company doesn't make. Usually it doesn't make that much money on you, but an engineer that builds a system that's going to run for like 10 years and accrue hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue, you know, and, and is, is, is, is a, is a, is a great investment even if you pay them millions of dollars. and once you, once you're dealing at the scale, the tiniest little changes you can do can mean 50, a hundred, $150 million. it's wild. And, to think that these companies care about the survival of media companies is to, uh, 

[00:25:48] Brian: No they 

[00:25:49] Troy: Yeah, and it it, Alex, the point I was making is it's wild where you see. You, you, you don't see meta, you don't see Google.

Right? It's if you drive by their campus and stuff in, in NorCal you'll see it. But when you start to see these data centers and the amount of energy they

consume, 

[00:26:05] Alex: Yeah. I mean, they don't 

[00:26:06] Troy: you see that

it's not just about the data centers, it's

always, it's also about it, the power connection, right?

So they're funding nuclear and they're building, you know, connections to the grid. Like, it, it really is a, a, a crazy time where you can see, and, and by the way, the, the, the, the investment in, in all of this, in chips and power and, and everything that supports it could end up. Is there a chance that it just blows up? Like there's a good chance it blows up, don't you

[00:26:35] Alex: Yeah,

[00:26:36] Brian: Oh, we could have, we could have brown ounce and rolling blackouts because

of all this 

[00:26:39] Troy: I don't mean, I don't mean blows up that way. I mean,

becomes a spectacular bubble.

[00:26:43] Alex: Yeah, there's, and, and, and there's more concern around, so talking to folks here, like first, but first of all, even if we're, even if we're looking at these investments, the, the, the, the, the free cash flow that these ach, I mean, AB will know better, but that these, companies generate, like, like I said, they, they can handle a pretty big. collapse of, of these things. But one of the concerns is that the investment infrastructure investment, they're not 5, 10, 20 years infrastructure investment. A lot of the, the, the, the cost goes into things that you could essentially consider as consumables, right? Those GPUs and things like that are consumable.

Now, however, you know, we might all benefit from the electrical grid improvements and, you know, turning on nuclear power plants, if that does,

[00:27:27] Brian: Well, they're, they're gonna take all the energy. So, I mean, they, they're not building this for

us, Alex, and I'm the naive one. 

[00:27:33] Troy: sent you, 

[00:27:33] Alex: one thing I just on that, the Mag seven is now, which is just the name for all the, the top,tech companies is now 33% of the s and p 500. So you wanna talk about systemic risk? I hope they pull it off. 'cause that's basically what

I mean, Nvidia, Nvidia is a massive risk, just like a geopolitical risk, right? Like China, China, you know, starts, you know, getting interested in Taiwan again, and Nvidia is in, has this huge risk attached to it, and the entire stock market is linked to it at this stage.


[00:28:04] Superintelligence
---

[00:28:04] Brian: So one of the other things is meta, you know, they're, they're starting to roll out their story, right? Their narrative about ai and now it's about super intelligence, which it, to my mind is a great rebranding of a GI, because, a GI is such a nerdy like, tech thing that literally is meaningless when, when you say super intelligence, that's a nice brand.

That's, that's a People Inc. That's a nice job. Gary Barry Diller, I think would approve of that, rebranding. And so they're pulling it together. They're obviously paying a lot of money for a lot of researchers, and we see this time, and again, I feel like with these tech companies where they master one thing and then they become capital allocators. And they sit on hoards of cash and they deploy that capital. And when we're going into this super intelligence era, and I want to get into this 'cause I was reading this economist article on it and it kind of like blew my mind a little bit, and maybe it's obvious, but to me it was, it was, you know, putting the pieces together, which is that in a, in an, in an era of super intelligence, let's just say it, it does, you know, come to fruition the way the, the sort of tech oligarchs are saying. I mean, they're talking about economic growth just decoupling and basically becoming 20 to 30% a year. And most of those gains going to a very few number of people and entities and most of it being around who has capital to deploy. So they're able to buy, build these massive data centers. Hoard all of this compute take over, you know, and restart nuclear reactors, for a reason because they have a cash machine that they are now flooding into this new boom. I think that has like incredible implications because one of the things that Zuckerberg was talking about yesterday was that the AI that they have, which by the way they have it because, because they can apply it to ads. Same with Google. So, sorry, apple, your anti ads thing was a big mistake. And, that they, the A, the AI is now like building more AI and I think this is really interesting when you play out the implications of this.

[00:30:15] AB: I think it will in the deal context, and it's, it's not really reported that well, in terms of how much value has been created with some of these relatively new AI companies, when the larger the Max seven buys them, you know, buys 49% or, or what, you know, do, does these convolt looted deals that get around antitrust.

But you have companies that have some. AI technology, but they're effectively being acquired for the people. and the people are having significant impact. There's a business that Google, Google acquired last year and those, that team went in and fixed Gemini. And so with this, this idea of like decoupling or the economy changing, I would already, I would make the argument that it's already happening from a deal perspective where you're basically seeing deal values.

That would've never been possible. You look at like what Microsoft paid for Excel when it first, I, I think Microsoft bought Excel or bought one of the PowerPoint. They paid like $10 million, right? If you had a good AI company today, and we have the right engineers, the value is billions of dollars, which is wild.

And so it's, I'm saying something different than what you're saying, Brian, but I, I think we're already starting to see very significant changes. There's not a media entrepreneur today who has in their deck size substack, a goal to sell for billions of dollars. It's just not possible. And the levers of building value in AI are just out of control there.

There's, we'd never have seen this sort of.

[00:31:46] Troy: It is stupendous. I mean, you look at like, there are people, and this is, this was pointed out, this is not an original thought of mine, but like the, the amazing thing, it's not that like Zuckerberg is out there offering a billion dollars over like four years or something. It's that people are turning him down.

[00:32:01] Brian: Like who are at, the Mira ti firm like that is like, what do they know? Like, you know, like I, it's one of those, I'm like, wait a second. What do you guys all know? Alex, what do they.

[00:32:13] Alex: What do they know about what.

[00:32:15] Brian: Well, like if you're turning down as, what did you call it? Hired help. If you're hired help and, and, and you're turning down a billion dollars over four years because you're at a no revenue start, no revenue, no product startup in this field.

What do you know? 

[00:32:30] Alex: I don't, I I think I, I, I, I, so, I'm, I'm all right. I'm, I'm sounding sounding like Peter Thiel answering a question. 

[00:32:39] Brian: It's like, are you the antichrist? 

Alex 

[00:32:41] Alex: here's, what here's, what I think is happening there is maybe some of these folks sound like zealots a little bit, uh, especially, well, especially when it comes to a GI and it is not. There are a lot of, I think there's like maybe three camps that are the true believers in a GI and they truly believe this will change the world. And this is their one shot. I mean, they're talking about curing every form of cancer, stopping death, uploading ourselves to the cloud, you know, uh, you know, the kind of group of people, there are those who don't believe that, believe that like AI is definitely a thing, but a GI is unlikely to happen in the way we expect it to. and then there's folks who are definitely a little bit more about using a GI as a way to, drive market energy, right? Which is just this idea that they keep kind of changing the goalposts where it's a GI is essentially anything that will replace a human job. You don't, you don't know which human job job, if it's data entry or, or tech support or whatever. but that's not true. A GI, So I think you need to look into like what's in people's hearts, right? Like I, I, I don't, I don't think anybody truly knows. I think that we have for the first time. I don't think it's a, I don't think there's a, we're used to linear trajectories in tech where you can kind of see where technology is heading here. We can see that there's a lot of over, there's a lot of expectations that have, have been set that are actually like, not at all connected to reality where these large companies have invested in millions. And we, we've seen very smart people at Amazon launch an Alexa that was meant to be smart, but didn't do the, you know, immediately, started doing silly things.

We saw Apple, screw that up. So I think there is, even within people who should know better, A very fuzzy look into the future, and so I don't think anybody truly knows. But if you're a zealot then and you think that you're gonna build God, then yeah, you'd, you'd, you'd say no to a billion dollars because that's worth a 

[00:34:37] Troy: one, one of the things that that defines San Francisco is this mix of techno optimism and idealism. And I think that what I'm surprised you didn't mention, Alex, is to a lot of these folks, these people are ick, right? Like, they don't want to, they don't want to be part of Z's super intelligence plan. And they're already rich, by the way, I mean, rich by any normal person's standard, they have millions of

[00:35:06] Alex: They have enough to live a very good 

[00:35:08] Troy: So, so I think that they're in a position where they can make, you know,

[00:35:11] Alex: San Francisco. That's rich. Yeah. 

[00:35:13] Troy: Yeah. So the, the other, you know, they own their house, they have millions of dollars and they have, you know, a a, an idea of what kind of place they wanna work in, who they wanna work for, what kind of world they wanna live it 

[00:35:24] Alex: And also they, a lot of them think that, feel that time is on their side, right? Where they're, they're part of a very small group of people. Their value's gonna keep going up, but 

[00:35:33] Troy: The,

the other thing that, that, that article is really interesting, and Brian, I, I don't know. This is an, an article from the Economist that you sent around, and part of the context is for centuries we didn't have any material productivity growth and so like 

[00:35:48] Brian: Yeah, I had no idea that we basically, the economy didn't grow for like 

[00:35:51] Troy: Yeah. Until we had breakout, sort, sort of innovation in the industrial economy, right.

Like that's when we started to see more, more productivity growth. But what you're gonna see, like at anywhere near 10, 20, 30% productivity growth, like, I don't even know how we navigate it because the point that they made in that article is we're sort of entering a phase where digital abundance meets real world scarcity. Like the price of things goes to zero. The price of a

lot of things. 

[00:36:20] Brian: The cost disease part is interesting to 

me like.

[00:36:23] Troy: so, so, so just dealing with that from a social perspective and, and the unemployment that comes along with that and, and this idea that there's an AI kind of driven. Productivity that de decouples labor from growth, right? Where, you know, you don't need the people. And, and then, you know, I'm not entirely convinced that the way that we develop consensus in this country or anywhere in the world is anywhere near prepared to, to, to, to manage the kinds of divergence points of view that come along with that.

It's terrifying. 

[00:36:59] Brian: Well, I mean, it's like plumbers are gonna be making like $2,000 an hour and lawyers are not, and there's gonna be, I don't know if that's the case. I know, I, I know AB does not, does not like to hear that professional services are gonna,

[00:37:12] Troy: Well, AB makes a living out of referring business to lawyers. so, so. 

[00:37:17] Brian: he is got 

a dog in this fight. 

[00:37:19] AB: there's two things here. One is I think people's perception that this is, I think it will actually have an easier impact on blue collar jobs versus white collar, and every time I say to people. But like the robots aren't coming for a long time. I think they're gonna come a lot quicker.

And it's a lot easier to disintermediate blue collar people because everyone has had something break at their house and had someone come can, like the quality of service varies widely. You see this with Waymo, you take Waymo like a couple times and you're like, oh, this is so much better than taking an Uber.

That sometimes you get into an Uber and the person has interesting music or they wanna talk to you and you're like, I just, I don't want to, I just want to sit here. And so I think that the blue collar work will get disrupted at a much more rapid base. And it's not gonna affect every blue collar job. But there's a lot of places where like if you eliminate all drivers, including semi 

[00:38:10] Troy: The biggest category in the economy, truck drivers.

[00:38:12] AB: yeah.

And it's, and like we, you go, well, it's just a couple percentage. No, that's like a big, those are like a lot 

[00:38:18] Troy: Does the idea of a, un, un unmanned, semi barreling down the highway, controlled by a robot, frighten you?

[00:38:27] AB: No, because what's the alternative? If somebody that's driving across the country, they're usually unhealthy because of those working. 'cause they're sitting 12 hours a day, they're usually hyped up 

[00:38:37] Brian: They're taking more than 

[00:38:38] AB: GY drinks.

Yes. The, in so much like you, you compare, like we took Waymo's in a weekend in, my son was ex he knows you three years old.

He, he, he said, hi Webo. He got in as a consum early consumer. He was way more excited to take 

Lamo. 

[00:38:55] Troy: is happy.

[00:38:56] AB: Yeah. Yeah.

He's ready for the robots to control it. But here's one other interesting point that I think a lot of people are missing in the white collar world is AI for my job is actually best utilized and controlled by.

Senior people, not junior people, but most firms are set up where most of the work is done by the junior people and the senior people are out talking to clients. And so I think it's actually gonna take a lot longer than people think for it is a couple platforms already that are, that a lot of banks are using for some of the basic outputs for investment banking.

But I think to get real leverage, the senior people need to use it. And a lot of people that I talk to, they use Chat Key now for like fun in some research, but I think you'll see firms that will actually create new organiz, new organizational structures to utilize these technologies in the right way. So AI is way more powerful in my hands than it is in a 22-year-old analyst.

and it, we should have think fundamentally differently about how these organizations are setting up both investment banking and investing.

[00:40:00] Brian: So I think the question I have, and maybe this is naive, Troy, I am gonna, I'm gonna say that, is that when, basically if AI is gonna be creating the ideas, okay. 'cause eventually it will be right? Like this idea that like. Meta doesn't have to come up with new ideas. Really, they, it's just about capital.

Because one of the things that stood out to me in this economist article and piecing this all altogether is, and this has been out there, okay, is that it's just about capital. Like you just need to have capital to deploy. And I almost feel like we're in this period, and maybe I'm getting too paranoid, where, you know, as a kid we used to play this, you know, game by necessity where you would hit the garage door and then scramble to get under it before it closed.

'cause we didn't have like a 

[00:40:45] Troy: Oh, we did that in Regina. 

[00:40:46] Brian: Oh yeah. It was, it was a, it was a 1980s like thing. If you didn't get out there, you know it was gonna hit you in the head. I kind of feel that with capital accumulation right now because if you reading that article, if you play it all out like you better have capital now because if this does come to fruition or anything near it, like it's just about who has capital. Because you just plow it into, if you have capital, you can buy more compute. And if you have more compute, you can have more productivity. It's not about, you don't have any leverage in ideas or, or, or thinking. Am I, am I missing something here? Am I, have I gone too much? Too far into the singularity?

[00:41:26] Alex: you're a representative from the singularity.

there's going to be a lot of change, but it's very hard to predict it, and I find a lot of. These lists and predictions. First of all, the technology is nowhere near ready. I think it's ready to do, yes, to get somebody pretty senior to work more, but I'm, I'm looking at some of the downstream effects of that and a lot, lots of things are gonna change and it's probably going to be really unpredictable.

Like, for example, if more senior people, start using AI and there's less kind of, you know, shit work for junior interns to do, then what happens to intern the internship path? Maybe we don't have kind of a talent path moving forward. I don't know. 

[00:42:09] Troy: It seems to me that we spent a long time, maybe the last several decades, kind of downplaying the importance of a type of work that may have involved some amounts of brain and manual labor, some amounts of, you know, training at, at, you know, tech colleges and stuff. And, I think that that, you know, as, as you guys highlighted, those will be important jobs, but kind of mid-tier knowledge work that was in some ways a kind of,A kind of category of achievement for a lot of people. Getting to be a, you know, a director at a bank or, or, you know, at an advertising agency or, you know, a consulting firm. That's the stuff that's gonna get really, really get hammered

in the short run. And, and, and it doesn't actually, Alex, we don't, I agree with you that the technology today is so kind of wildly imperfect or unreliable, but in the short run, like that ab can do the work of 10 people 

is, is really where you're gonna see the impact.

[00:43:12] Alex: I think we're, we're having, it's, we're having a hard time predicting this stuff because we're looking at multiple points in the future and in the past, right? Like what happened when technology replaced all these jobs in the, you know, ag agricultural jobs in the past, and then we're being promised this a GI future, that may or may not come. what I, what I feel is probably, I, I don't know if jobs will be whole swath replaced. It'd definitely be some categories that do that. But my expectation is that the concept of work and career and how well defined it is, will be very different in the 

[00:43:43] Troy: Yeah, I mean, and if ab is any indicator, I, I now have a kind of different perspective on him because he did spend the weekend at my house and that guy is always on. I'm telling you, he's, you know, he is a nice guy and everything, but like, he, he's, he's making a deck or opening his laptop or sending a text or, you know, doing something 24 7. So if that's the future, if that's the emancipated future, I, I don't want any part of it.

[00:44:09] Brian: No

agents are gonna be doing that for ab. 

[00:44:11] AB: so. I had dinner with someone earlier this week at a big venture firm, and I think you would be surprised at the most, the largest firms are already starting to implement these things in very big ways that will completely change their operating structure.

There's no point for them to signal to the market that any of this is happening, right? It's a competitive advantage, and so I think a lot of this stuff is already happening and. There's large institutions that will be slow, slow movers, and they're not, they don't need to change for a couple of years. But I think that there's going to be similar to how this Facebook stock is just rip.

I mean, I, I looked at it this morning at five o'clock getting off the red eye and I was like, holy crap. Like it's a 20 per percent or some crazy number. I think we're gonna be all surprised about this, like impact when, when everyone's like, but wow. There are firms that have been, that have figured this out way faster than other ones, and they've already been doing it.

And then, some of the slower movers, it's gonna really hard for them to catch up. The nice thing of banking is some of the larger institutions control capital and other services that the more nimble firms don't want this intermediate, but like it's already happening. Like I, at his dinner. Everything that I'm thinking about this other person was, and they're already applying it at a pretty rapid pace, and you could move so much faster.

So I I, I 

[00:45:32] Brian: at,

you look at what these tech companies, they've been like, fine. A lot of it is performance stuff, but like they've been cutting, shedding. So meta has been like doing layoffs this year and they're still able to grow like tremendously. And to me that just shows that the leverage of like labor is going down 

[00:45:52] Troy: How layoffs have transformed from being the, like, oh, I'm sorry. we, I'm running a bad company. I'm failing to, like a badge of honor in, in corporate

America is amazing. 

[00:46:03] Alex: Well, I mean, I think, I think like it's incentivized, right? The market usually,the market usually, 

[00:46:08] Brian: well, the stock market has always liked layoffs.

[00:46:11] Alex: Yeah. But, but I, and, and the, the thing with the layoffs is I think they started, they would happen without AI because these companies are so rich that they're very bloated. and so you, you can, you can, you can go into any of these tech companies and, and, and easily find like, you know, 10, 20% that you could lay off.

And like there, there's also this running joke that we had in some tech companies that we could all go home for three months and the business would still grow, you know? And that's true, right? Once you have this kind of crazy business. and, and they're also like kind of, kind of retrofitting AI into these layoffs as a kind of, they, they, the idea is that you pressure the team by making 'em smaller.

You flatten the organizations and then you kind of nudge people to start thinking differently about their work, so that they can cover some of the gaps left by the people who might have, who might have gone. 


[00:47:02] Advertising & New Path To Attention
---

[00:47:02] Brian: I can 

do this forever. let, let, let's move on to the advertising for a bit and, and the new path to getting attention. 'cause we saw like one side of the market with what Meta is doing and then Google's results were tremendous performance. Mar performance is all going towards these platforms. AI is gonna be amazing at making ads more performant, sorry, mark Cuban who came out and said, you know, advertising should be banned from AI engines.

that's never gonna happen. And 

[00:47:30] Troy: Do we

get to talk about Sydney Sweeney now?

[00:47:32] Brian: Yes, we get to talk about Sydney Sweeney now because, you know, there's, there's multiple controversies going on, and I think now the controversy is you have to do controversy to break through, the algorithms and conflict is the name of the game. That is how you get attention, in the information system. The Sydney Sw Sweeney Great Jeans uproar, American Eagle, had a new advertisement, featuring actress Sydney Sweeney. She's an actress, but she's most known within certain corners of the internet as I guess their favorite, like hot woman. don't know how, Troy, do you, how would you describe it?

[00:48:11] Troy: She's hot. She's a woman.

[00:48:13] Brian: She's hot. She's a woman. so, you know, the, the, it immediately. Spark debate, maybe some outrage, some people from the more progressive side, claimed it was all about eugenics. And this is, you know, basically going, against inclusive, inclusive beauty standards, which have become the norm in the last decade.

And I have seen, I have seen studies that have proven that including plus size and inclusive models and whatnot, it, actually does lead to, to higher sales. I don't know. that's just what the research says. Obviously Sydney Sweeney has a very classic look. She's blonde, she's blue-eyed. Et cetera. I won't go into all the, details, but, you know, she's May and the other side has, has celebrated this as this is, yet another, the end of Woke has, has been going on now for longer than supposedly the woke era existed at this point. and also by the way, in retrospect, the sort of quote unquote woke era has become worse than the cultural revolution. I don't remember it that way, but that is, how it goes. Troy, you wanna take this one? To me, the story is about like the outrage, and I have, I have a broader point, that I can make about

[00:49:25] AB: Could I start, can I start and then I have the hub and now it, she can talk too. But, I mean, so when people make movies right, they, they, the reason why they pick stars is they're worried about what the box office is going to do. And so I bet at a lot of these studios, when they consider who they're gonna pick for a movie, if they look at their reach on Instagram and other places and they say, okay, if we can get Sydney into our movie, we, we can guarantee 10 or 20 million of revenue.

And they stack that with the other stars they get. That's why you always have, but it's not, it's not an independent movie. You're trying to brave safely bring in the cast that will give people to the movie theater or watching it in other places. So I think the reason why. Out on the screen, you'll make her more valuable as like if just introduces her to more people or reinforces her to her current audiences that she's good looking, she's relevant.

and I think a lot of people that like her probably just ignore all this noise around people's, I mean, it's kind of funny. It's like, I think most really good gene advertisements have hot women. They're not always white, but usually that's part of the appeal of a good pair of jeans is they fit nicely and they have certain contours on their bodies that show it in the edge.

So I wrote, I think there's a part of media that just likes to be mean or call stuff out when it's not really that big of a deal. I think the more fun thing is a South Park episode, but enough we're gonna talk about Ben.

[00:50:51] Alex: yeah, I just wanted to say like, I, you know, none of us is really entirely qualified to talk about parts of this thing, but it does to me, at first when I saw it, is just a company looking at somebody who's, who's very popular. And I mean that in kind of the broadest sense. She's a movie star, but she's also like, you know, represented on social. 

[00:51:11] Brian: No. She's a meme. she's a 

meme. 

That's why I think this 

[00:51:14] Alex: the type part part of it is the way she looks, but part of it is the way kind of, she projects herself and is comfortable in her 

[00:51:22] Brian: I don't even think that's it. She just got taken over by like internet, like culture, and she became a meme for her breasts. Like that's what it's about. Like, it's not like, I kind of feel bad for her in some ways in that she, she worked really hard to be an, an actress. You know, she

started at, at like 11 

[00:51:40] Troy: bad for her. Brian. She can be 

both. She 

[00:51:42] Brian: no. Let me 

just finish. I know. Really love to cut me off, but like, she started as 11 years old as an, as an actress. She would like drive 20 hours to go to, to auditions and she did a PowerPoint and extensive PowerPoint for her parents to like, move so she could be like an actress. And she did, she put in the work. Then all of a sudden she became famous for something totally different, which I, I find these, these articles say that she's well known for euphoria. Why gimme a break? She's not well known for that. She's known as an internet meme. And like she might not have 

[00:52:12] AB: Yeah. But, uh, I mean that's just the age we live in today. Like if Brad Pitt like the idea that talent drive star is not true. Like it's, it's a combination of how people look. Like Leonardo DiCaprio and Tom Ollie's people, they're amazing actors, but there's 10 of those guys in Hollywood and nine of them work at Olive Garden.

And then there's one that popped and it's part tiny in luck, but it's also how did luck like Brad Pitt and Fight Club, like it's in me using job acting, but he also has. State and apac, right? So I, I don't think it's objectifying her body is just how society works. 

[00:52:51] Alex: I agree. I mean, the, the, the thing is, just to bring it to the outrage, I'm, I haven't been able to track this, the outrage. It seems like there's a, there's like a, a, a scale of, of outrage, you know, from like beauty standards, which fine, you know, if you want to have a conversation around that. All the way to the, this is a, a nod to eugenics, which sounds kind of, paranoid. Um, 

[00:53:13] Troy: Yes.

[00:53:14] Alex: yeah, uh, because, because,

it's just, I 

think it was just like a, it was a cheeky joke. and it landed in a way where that you really think that they're, they're putting through a message to celebrate eugenics when they do that. And it's the type of discourse that then gets picked up. And I, I actually don't know how big it is because most of the time as I'm seeing it, I'm just seeing it like represented in the 

[00:53:37] Brian: it's the It I don't think it's genuine. I don't think anything in marketing is genuine. It's marketing. It's meant to like provoke, particularly like certain corners, particularly of the media. That to me is the goal of this. And I think it's like kind of, ingenious. I mean, astronomer did something very similar in, in, in some ways in that they became the center of another sort of, and this is a little bit of throwback, another sort of viral moment when their CEO and head of HR were canoodling at a Coldplay concert and got put on the KISS camp. so they, took their lumps and the CEO got sent packing and I assumed the head of HR did too. And

so they hired, Coldplay singer, Chris Martins, ex-wife Gwyneth Paltrow to do a very, a very funny and cheeky, video. and, we see it like here. Gwyneth Paltrow was the temporary spokes. Person for, astronomer, and I think this is, this was done by Ryan Reynolds,maximum Effort Agency.

They're known for this kind of viral 

[00:54:39] Alex: Uh, that's, that's amazing. And he probably has her on speed dial so they can move quickly.

[00:54:44] Brian: Yeah. They did this really fast.

In some ways it's like, it's a return to like viral marketing. I on both in, in 

[00:54:50] Troy: I mean, if, if this will win the Cannes Lion, Brian.

[00:54:53] Brian: Yeah. It should.

[00:54:54] AB: thinking about this was probably effectively free because they fired the God for Pause. He didn't get his pay package and they gave, went into a couple million bucks and their money good. Some.

[00:55:05] Alex: Huh. That's amazing.

I mean, I, it's also like analyzing their reaction when they were in that kiss cam and all the different choices that they could have made that would've not turned this into a thing. but, but one of the, one of the things I found did, did anybody know about Astronomer before this happened? 

[00:55:21] Brian: No, never heard of it. The guy went to my college I had never heard of. It

must be the most, most 

[00:55:26] Alex: I, and

I,

kept hearing the news that astronomer, CEO and I thought it was this famous CEO that was also an astronomer. and, but I guess people know the brand now. It's a, it's a shame that there's no like, consumer 

[00:55:39] Brian: Well, they're just like a 

B2B brand, right?

[00:55:41] Alex: Yeah, yeah. 

[00:55:41] Troy: Yeah.

Alex, maybe you can check me on this, but I, I, I, while I think that everything these days becomes a kind of artifact for your own personal commentary or point of view, such that you can take something that someone's put into the, you, you know, to the kind of internet sphere and, you know, use it to, to kinda make whatever point you want. I gotta say that I think that the creative process behind the Sweeney thing was far more benign.and that someone said, Hey, she, she's hot. Let's get back to these days of like, simple gene advertising like Brooke Shields and her Calvin's, or like the. What was that Fly Me airline ad? that was, that was briefly famous where the, the sort of hot stewardesses were like saying, fly me, fly me.

And, and, and there's a

[00:56:35] Alex: Oh, the, those, those burger ads or the GoDaddy ads.

[00:56:39] Troy: or the GoDaddy ads. And they said, let's take, if we can get Sydney Sweeney, let's invest the money. American Eagle has lost relevance. The stock price is down 40% or whatever it is. she looks good in jeans. Oh, jeans. Oh, we can make a joke about that. She's got great genes. Write that in. And that's kind of how it happened. And, and then, you know, it became a kind of fertile, you know, piece of content for, for all types of conspiracies and, and sort of coded, you know, social aspirations. And, and so it became, you know,

[00:57:16] Brian: Okay. So you don't think it was intentional, 

[00:57:18] Troy: I don't, I don't, but I do think that

good 

creative these 

[00:57:21] Alex: that at some point in the marketing meeting, somebody said, you know what? We could reference eugenics. Like, I don't think 

that's happened.

[00:57:29] Troy: but I do, I mean, they may have said, listen, people are gonna talk about this for sure.

[00:57:34] Brian: They, they said that they meant it to pro,

they meant it to provoke. And I don't understand if, let's just say they did, like, I think that's a very good marketing strategy. That's stuff that AI probably for a little while isn't gonna be great at. But like, you want to like, push people's buttons. Look at how you get attention in media.

I mean, look at the all in people. Like, I mean, this is, this is for better or worse, everyone's a carnival barker out there looking for attention. And so being able to hack this system seems like a good strategy.

[00:58:04] Troy: I mean, I'll be curious to see if the awareness translates into sales. 

[00:58:09] Brian: Yeah, we'll see. 

[00:58:10] Troy: And I would also.

be curious guys

to see if they follow up with maybe another more diverse hot person that they can turn this into a bit of a franchise. 

[00:58:21] Brian: Okay. Good. one other thing, Vogue, has, again, I don't know if this, I never know if any sort of backlash things are real, right? but they used, they, they ran an AI generated ad, from guess it was, it was entirely created with a AI generated model. supposedly. Again, supposedly readers found it, quote unquote disturbing, because the, the CGI model looked quote unquote, too perfect.

sort of a bit of an uncanny valley effect. and that there was only tiny fine print that Vogue noted. It was ai. And, critics quickly amassed to call it cheap, lazy, desperate, particularly for Vogue, which celebrates creativity and fashion is obviously, very rooted, in, the creative. it,

[00:59:11] Alex: Is this the one that I have on screen right now? I mean,

it looks like ai. 

[00:59:15] Troy: yeah. 

it's, it's just incredibly boring. 

[00:59:18] Alex: it's so boring.

[00:59:20] Troy: It's just so 

[00:59:21] Brian: well

[00:59:21] Alex: You

know, it, it looks like I, I get ads like this on Instagram for like a match three game where they just put somebody's face like that on it.

[00:59:28] AB: Here's, here's one. Interesting. So this is probably a, a, a symptom of, again, stepping back and hundred people being there. But, I remember at South by Southwest, I was watched Marquez. Brownley do one of his talks. And what I re realized, a really interesting thing about AI is these agents can show up more like the person they're talking to.

So Marquez was using, open AI and like the voice he had was different than the one that I would ch choose. And so you can see if this outrage stuff is, is so annoying, people just need stuff to write about. I think the more interesting element here is in the future, if Conde does a better job of collecting your user data and knowing who you are, you would, you're gonna actually start to see, it's not gonna take the form and print, but in digital, the different content that's produced.

One, they don't have any money to do this stuff anymore, so they're gonna move, they have to move to AI generated stuff. But the second thing is like the models are going to change to actually represent the person that's reading it. America is a very diverse place. It's like 30% Hispanic. So in the future, this average of is.

Such a, a distraction to what actually can happen, which is Vogue will have four or five different images that they've generated based on the reader that's reading it. So if you are African American, it might be an African American model, you'll get through whatever white, whatever the right term is for being white Caucasian.

it's gonna be a white person if you're Hispanic and you'll, and you wanna see a Hispanic person, Hispanic model. So I actually think, 'cause that's how the AI models are now, when you have a thumbs up, you can make it color coded based on your skin color. But more and more, I think these media companies are gonna be creating images that resonate and align with who's reading it.

So they feel like, oh, this is something there someone I know. 

[01:01:14] Alex: They're gonna also find ways to do it where it's less shitty, because I think just generating, like, just generating people who don't exist. I don't know if people are going to to like that, but I think, you know, models and stuff like that are probably going to license their likeness so that they can regenerate the photo shoot with like, you know, 20 different people. and, and it might have been even a real photo shoot and, real outfits, but it can kind of refit them, naturally. I think the, the, the thing people react to oftentimes is this. Like there's no real person behind it, even if it looks really real. Once you find that out, it's very unappealing. Just psychologically, I think we have a, we have just like a, a, a neurological response to, something that isn't real, however, you know, making something that looks like somebody else and using that, I think that's going to be a lot more accepted, like the Trump thing. 

[01:02:04] Brian: Yeah. So like one, one note on that, like, I don't know if you have it, I, I put it in the chat, but like there's the top 40 occupations with highest AI applicability

score that got ranked and models were on that top, top 40 list. and there's actually a lot of. Good reasons for that. Anna win Tores noted that she doesn't like models on set because like there's so many problems with models.

They're typically very young that you gotta like watch out for the, the lectures, photographers and whatnot. And, 

[01:02:35] Alex: It's 36 on the list. 

[01:02:38] Brian: 36, 

[01:02:38] Alex: like, you know 

It's I've, I've, I've

known a few models and I've worked in the media industry enough to know that these people are already treated like objects and I'm pretty sure that as soon as they can snap their fingers and replace them, they will do it.

[01:02:52] Brian: Yeah. That's one of those model is one of those professions that like architect, I think people think is far more glamorous than it actually is. I mean, you're basically

being treated like a piece of meat and like you've got a bunch of like people you don't know who are like grabbing at you and changing things on you and like,

[01:03:09] Alex: Or, or it can be, but it's one of those jobs where you, you really only see like a hundred percent of what you see are, are the, the, the 1% success stories, and you don't see the 99% of what's really going on. So it's a very, it's a very skewed view of, of that role. but yeah, but I think people are going to, I think that there will be, this is fully a prediction.

I have no idea, but I think that there will be, there's such a drive to generate these images quickly, but there's such a response to people who don't exist that there will be a lot more license of people's likenesses, so that you can say, this is a real person and people are going to start caring less and less of how the picture was taken.

Okay. Middle ground. By the way, every picture you take today is a fake AI picture. Even on your iPhone, that scene never existed. You never looked so good. You know, it just, it, you, everything you, everything you take through a phone or a digital camera right now is, is being optimized in a way that makes it not a real snapshot.

So,

[01:04:05] Brian: Well, that's actually, I saw something that a lot of like, quote unquote, the young people, trademark, are, you know, with, with the rise of like messy authenticity, you know, it's like the kind of return of Polaroid or point and shoot cameras are, are

back a lot now because messy authenticity is in, and the, i the, like you said, the AI enabled like photos, they look too perfect. They

like, we're, 

we don't wanna look like ai.

[01:04:30] Alex: there's a real movement right now, in, in, in just like art and design, which is like anti aesthetics.

And so it's, it's like both, like people coming into age and so this, this really ugly. Early two thousands, like, graphic design is coming back and then with, with, videos that are shot like that are maybe over lit and or underlit, shot on, on cameras that aren't, you know, polishing everything up. and then even the three to four, uh, 43 form factors come back. A lot of young YouTubers are not doing things in white screen. They're doing it in that four by three old, TV form factor. and, and, you know, that's, that's a fun thing.

[01:05:09] Brian: Okay. Let's do good product.


[01:05:12] Good Product
---

​

[01:05:14] Troy: One is a bit of a reflection that I just thought of now, but one is, I'm really into black Australian licorice right now. I think it's delicious. They sell it at the grocery store on Shelter Island. I love it.

[01:05:27] Brian: How much does that run? Is that like 12 bucks?

[01:05:29] Troy: Alex found it right there. It was only five bucks. I 

[01:05:33] Brian: cost?

$16 for your licorice.

[01:05:36] Alex: the way, that's on licorice.com.

[01:05:39] Brian: Is that a, is that a People Inc. Property. 

[01:05:42] Alex: It must be. 

it is. Yes.

[01:05:44] Troy: the, the other one is, I was thinking today that every year around this time I get this sort of melancholy, summertime melancholy, which is like, knowing that we're moving into August or someone's mowing my lawn. we we're,

[01:06:01] Brian: segment keeps getting more relatable. Go on.

[01:06:03] Troy: yeah. the, we're moving

[01:06:05] Alex: Can you tell

your masseuse to move out of the way? Place she's in? 

[01:06:08] Brian: masseuse is here.

[01:06:09] Troy: Um,

we're moving into August and you can feel, you can see the end of summer and it's, it's beautiful outside. But, you know, we all feel this thing of, you know, how the season moves so fast and it just gives me this, you know, the summer's this thing that we. We build up to, we, we, we, we really get excited about it in the spring and, and we kind of don't want it to end, but it's, I guess it's beauty in its virtue is that it's short lived. And I was walking today with my dog on the beach thinking that,I need to just enjoy the feeling actually that it is, it is, it is fleeting, but that's the beauty of it. I don't wanna get overwhelmed with this sort of like the end of summer is coming and it, how, how quickly it, it, it went by and I just want to enjoy it and not come into the city.

[01:07:06] Brian: It is not even August. 

[01:07:08] AB: Summer is like the only time of the year that there isn't a holiday. Right. So like such 4th of July, but like y Yeah, but that's not that good. But it's like fall has Thanksgiving, winters Christmas, spring, Easter. So who do Sobers. Awesome. 

[01:07:23] Brian: I don't know. I'm gonna be, I'm gonna be in Italy in a week, and I think summer's amazing. and, and 

[01:07:28] Troy: think I 

said it wasn't amazing. I would say it's 

[01:07:30] Brian: it's summer all the time. So it's not, it doesn't have to be fleeting.

[01:07:34] Troy: No. The thing I like about it is I was, I'm a seasoned guy, Brian, and that's

all I know.

You know?

[01:07:39] Brian: Yeah. That's, that's the Regina in you.

[01:07:42] Troy: Yeah.

[01:07:43] Brian: I have, I have one very quick good product. I went to like a, a gelato place and I got like two scoops of gelato and I was happy. And then, then the guy said, okay, and you also get like a third mini scoop on, like, they put a little cone in the top of the two scoops, and then you got a third mini scoop on top of it.

And it was just like a total surprise. It was, I thought every single business needs to find their little mini, their little mini cone that, that they add to the, to the product, because that makes it like a 

[01:08:18] Troy: Where was that, Brad? Was that in Miami or in New

[01:08:21] Brian: It was in Wynwood, it was called like gelato and like macchiato, which is a strange name. 

[01:08:25] Troy: in Miami.

[01:08:26] Brian: Yeah. It's the one that it's like, it's just like, Bushwick if it was done by like an ad agency. 

[01:08:32] Troy: Okay. 

[01:08:33] Brian: Yeah.

[01:08:33] Troy: Does Steve Wynnwood have anything to do with that?

[01:08:36] Brian: No, no, no. It's just an a, a formerly decrepit part of town that they made into like, a very branded kind of like self-consciously hip area with.

[01:08:48] AB: my product is that I could maybe you guys talk about that. But the startling thing is I think such, such a game changing product a little. I bought it at Best Buy for 500 bucks. And as much as people can hate on Elon, like the product innovation around what they've done and they should be having fast internet anywhere, is why you could carry it in your backpack.

There's this add-on, which is like this little battery, so you don't ever need to plug it in. I'm a little bit scared to buy 'cause I don't want a Chinese battery to blow up. On an airplane when I'm cak it somewhere. But, you just turn it on and in five minutes you have an ability to do Zoom calls or watch YouTube videos and it's, it's 

[01:09:25] Troy: well, we were playing tennis, you guys. I was playing tennis with ab and he, he plugged in his,

[01:09:31] AB: I heard that was too slow.

[01:09:33] Troy: he plugged in his starlink and put it in the middle of the lawn.

[01:09:37] AB: We had to give you a break from Plank, so in between matches or whatever they're called, I give me work.

[01:09:43] Brian: Wow, that's hardcore.Um, all right, let's look at there. So I think this is, this is a good winner's take all episode. It's my working title. 

[01:09:52] Alex: I have a bad product

[01:09:53] Brian: Oh, good.

[01:09:54] Troy: I can't wait.

[01:09:55] Alex: and a and a public service announcement. Do not download the public preview of iOS 26. I, I think just, you know, been talking to some folks and it's a beta, so, you know, there's an expectation that it's a beta, but I've, I've downloaded every one of these betas for years now, this is by far the one where I look at it and I say, they're gonna have to walk so much of this stuff back or change it so fundamentally that it doesn't really look the same by the time it gets released to the public. it's a, it's a, it's a pretty baffling set of changes 

[01:10:30] Troy: Didn't Marcus Brownley love it. He gave it

[01:10:32] Brian: This is the liquid design stuff.

[01:10:34] Alex: Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you can even see it in some of the screenshot of how hard it becomes to read thing. It really feels like they've designed it to look good on your, kind of like your. You know, your idle screen and then everything else feels a little, just like not thought through. It feels, it feels harder to use than it ever has.

And,for the, I love new shit. I always try it out. I was, you know, excited about IO seven, even if I, even if it had flaws. This one is the one where I'm like, God, I really wish they kind of didn't go there 

[01:11:05] Troy: Alex, I'd be curious to get, I really am, looking forward to that home screen and that you can change. you'll notice when you change the height of the type, it dynamically reshapes the X axis,

and then you can, it para AEs, you can tuck it behind an object.

It's very cool.

[01:11:25] Alex: Yeah. The problem is everything else 

[01:11:27] Troy: Is it 

[01:11:28] Alex: on,

yeah, it's very, it's, I find it hard to read.

[01:11:31] Troy: Mm-hmm.

[01:11:32] Alex: I find it hard, which, you know, because they're doing stuff where, they, they try to dynamically, it's very impressive. They dynamically change the text depending on, on what's behind it, which looks fine when something's static, but you're spending most of your time scrolling through media on the internet, and it just makes anything that you're reading or any toolbar just completely just, you know, shimmer and, and change shape.

And it's, look, they're gonna solve it at some point. It might need a couple of versions, but right now, you know, early adopters, I would say just watch out because it makes, 

[01:12:04] Brian: So 

I have a question for you. Like, how does something like this then, like, get out the door at a company like Apple, like this seems like pretty obvious, like when people saw, it's like, yeah, this isn't usable. Like, I mean, designers always do things that you're like, no, this is like you, you can't read

[01:12:19] Alex: I am really shocked. I mean, actually this is one of the things I don't, I don't understand what's happening. I'm really shocked because it wouldn't. I'm pretty sure that this stuff wouldn't have made it out the, the door and it, it doesn't feel essential in any way,where the change feels, you know, like it's trying to show off, a technology rather than really prove its case for why it needs to exist. and so it's, it's, it's interesting. I don't know. I think that it, it, it, it shows like that, you know, things that are, apple are a little,maybe they're, you know, they're scrambling. now all the features that they added actually really good. There's a lot of really great features that they added to it.

promise, DUI, and I wonder if some of this stuff got moved forward because the AI stuff landed badly and they needed a, a, a big draw. and so it does feel like a little bit like the, the company 

has scrambled more than usual. 

[01:13:09] Brian: they're, they're definitely struggling. Their, their market cap is down to 3.1 trillion, 

[01:13:14] Troy: That may be, but it's really interesting to, to contrast these wonderful device makers that obviously, that live at the intersection of software and hardware with this new generation of tech company that's, you know, connected to the nuclear power grid with giant computing facilities and, you know, rockstar AI scientists making, you know, this sort of future industrial economy.

And you wonder if apple's gonna be a footnote in history.

[01:13:44] Brian: Well, I think one of the things, just to wrap it around this winner take all system is that when you are this big and have this much capital, you can make a ton, a Ton of mistakes. I saw a guy using the Vision Pro at the pool. That's a, massive mistake.

It's simply never gonna happen. 

[01:14:06] Troy: Did he act? He was he sitting on a lounge chair with a headset on?

[01:14:09] Brian: Yeah. Yeah. He wasn't looking at the Biscayne

Bay, he wasn't looking at the pool. He was, he was locked into his metaverse.

[01:14:17] Alex: Look, I gotta say, every time I put my vision Pro back on, I'm reminded how, like what an exceptional product it is, and yet how useless it is that most of the things I needed to do. those new personas, what you see yourself in in 3D are just a glimpse of the future. They're, they're 

[01:14:35] Troy: you remember when you were putting it on? Every morning, sort of cosplaying of, you know, a, a vision pro worker.

[01:14:41] Alex: Yeah. I mean, I, I I think it's actually for people who travel. I mean, ab right? Like

you got, you got, you strap that, 

[01:14:49] Troy: AB 

straps his laptop to his

[01:14:51] Alex: star,

well, you start, you 

strap your 

[01:14:53] Brian: that. Like 

[01:14:54] AB: funny thing, there's that book, the Circle, that which became a bad movie. But in that book it talks about this divide of like people who are unplugged versus plugged. And what's interesting is more and more I'm. More unplugged than ever. I don't, I read a lot. I read a lot of this synthetic news less, I read more books and I talk to more people and it's kind of scary to go the other, I don't think it's good 

[01:15:17] Brian: Well, I mean, that's gonna be the advantages are, are gonna be the people who have the wherewithal to resist, getting sucked into a lot of the AI slop

[01:15:25] AB: the strap bones. Yeah.


[01:15:27] Outr
---

[01:15:27] Troy: That's it for this episode of people versus algorithms where each week we uncover patterns shaping media culture and technology. Big thanks as always to our producer, Vanja Arsenov. She always makes us a little clearer and more understandable and we appreciate her very, very much. If you're enjoying these conversations, we'd love for you to leave us a review.

It helps us get the word out and keeps our community growing. Remember, you can find People vs. Algorithms on Apple Podcasts, on Spotify, and now on YouTube. Thanks for listening and we'll see you again next week.

[01:16:01] AB: Hey. 

[01:16:02] Brian: guys.

[01:16:03] Alex: you later.



