PVA S2E59
===


[00:00:00] Cold open 
---

[00:00:00] Brian: Have you been to a hamam yet?

[00:00:02] Troy: maybe tomorrow, 

I did a walk yesterday and we went to the mosques I like eating here. 

[00:00:06] Brian: Istanbul is a great city. I really enjoy it. I did some generative AI search about the mom, and basically all of the tips they have, are trying to head people off from going in all nude.

because you're gonna scandalize people. So just my tip for you.

[00:00:19] Troy: what's the recommendation?

[00:00:21] Brian: You got to wear this, particular undergarment that's called, Pestamel. that's the first etiquette tip. And then the number two one is under the heading flashing. And then it just says flashing is frowned upon. Which, in the

[00:00:34] Troy: Do you like it when they're aggressive with you? 

[00:00:37] Brian: I think that's different. Nobody's supposed to touch you in the homa. That's also frowned upon.


[00:00:41] Intro start
---

[00:00:41] Troy: 

[00:01:03] Brian: People vs. Algorithms is a show about media, technology, and culture. I'm Brian Marcy, and I'm joined separately this week by Troy Young and Alex Schleifer. Troy is in Istanbul, and with a time difference since Alex is in California, and his own dinner plans, we decided to break this into a two part episode.

In the first part, Troy and I discuss my theory. That the economic utility of media brands and brands overall is in terminal decline. He doesn't fully agree with me, although I think he does more so than he lets on. And then Alex and I take a slightly more AI focused lens to this question, because the job of brands has long been as a shortcut for people and a signifier.

AI is going to put pressure on that, especially for middling brands and those that I like to call minimally plausible brands. Send your feedback to brian at 3booting. com and please leave us a rating and review wherever you get your podcasts. 

[00:01:52] Troy: I know we're gonna talk about brands a little bit it's fun to see a completely different set of brands Like, we have a brand shift as we move to Turkey from the rest of Europe and certainly from America.

[00:02:03] Brian: Oh, yeah. I don't know how you feel about Istanbul, but it definitely feels more like you're in the Middle East often than, than Europe.

[00:02:11] Troy: Yeah.

[00:02:11] Brian: I know it's obviously a mix and any Turkish listeners, I know, but, at least that was my feeling.

[00:02:16] Troy: this hotel is a little European transplant, but other than that, when you get out and walk around, it's great. We did the best thing last night. We just sat in a little bar, played backgammon, smoked those pipes,

[00:02:28] Brian: The hookah?

[00:02:29] Troy: the hookah, drank tea. 

[00:02:31] Brian: That's fun.

Tom Friedman had that McDonald's theory. it's like countries with McDonald's don't go to war, which of course they do. that's like a lot of Tom Friedman's theories that just didn't pan out. But I, I was trying to twist that with the Soho house.

And I was like, anyone who has a Soho house is not going to get mixed up in any kind of war stuff, or

[00:02:54] Troy: There's a nice Soho house here on the top of the hill.

[00:02:56] Brian: I know, so it opened when I was there one time, and we stopped by, I'm not a Soho House member, I have to have that disclaimer, I have a reputation to protect, and

[00:03:07] Troy: what's so wrong with that?

[00:03:08] Brian: the Soho House?

[00:03:09] Troy: You're like that. I don't

[00:03:11] Brian: No, it's, the worst, I don't like that kind of elitism, I'm not into that, and it's like faux elitism. because Soho House when it started was totally different as the meat packing district. And then they tried to scale it and go public and stuff. And it diluted what was already to me, and this is a good segue, kind of a bullshit brand to begin with, because I think what we're dealing with right now, I like just published a newsletter called Twilight of the Brands, but if I could correct it, it was Twilight of the Bullshit Brands, because the years, I've noticed when there is a challenge that is being faced by companies, the last refuge is the brand.

And that's in quotes, the brand. And it's like, yeah, all of our economic advantages are being eroded, and we're seeing this in publishing, but we still have the brand. And it sort of goes unquestioned to some degree about the utility, the economic utility of these brands. And my theory is

[00:04:05] Troy: Brands take a long time to build, Brian. so people want them to shortcut, the development of a new kind of business or something. Brands are valuable. So... If you could pick up a brand, because that's kind of all that's left of it, and then do something that fits, with the kind of modern value creation challenge, then pick up a brand.

I mean, it's the hardest thing to build in media, a brand. I

[00:04:27] Brian: a brand. It has been. It has been the hardest thing to build, right? 

[00:04:30] Troy: takes a, long time It still does. 

[00:04:33] Brian: at 30, 000 feet, it doesn't go down to the earth immediately. it keeps floating, even if the engines go out, it keeps going for a while. Right.

[00:04:41] Troy: That was like a David Carey from the day, which was these magazine brands are big brands and small businesses.

[00:04:47] Brian: Yeah. Well. That delta is shrinking. I would argue for a lot of these brands. you know, these air strong brands, right? And I just I think that's why it's a little bit troubling in some ways. Like, if you look at What's happening at Condé Nast, they've got a bunch of amazing brands in that portfolio, right?

[00:05:06] Troy: The best, yeah. 

[00:05:07] Brian: and they're in a world of hurt right now. So what does that say about the economic utility of these brands?

[00:05:13] Troy: Either says, they're doing something wrong or that the gig is up or these are much smaller businesses, which I guess is related to this. It's my second answer. yeah, tough times. I mean, you asked me in the text,well, you know, what, what advice would you give Roger?

[00:05:30] Brian: I know you

dismissed me. 

it was a very like moderator question. I could have asked about measurement.

[00:05:37] Troy: is that what you want to talk about today?

[00:05:39] Brian: Sort of, yeah. I mean, I want to start with legacy brands, right? because, I mean, you saw up close, right? Hurst is like a lot of really strong legacy brands, right? And there's a lot you can do to modernize those, and I think that there was Some thinking that like, okay, if you can, for instance, you wrote about the metabolism.

If you can up the metabolism and you can adopt like the modern distribution techniques, et cetera, et cetera, you can create something really valuable and long lasting and continue this on. I don't know if that's true to be honest with you. And in, in many cases, I think there's a lot of things going on right now that are eroding the The power of these brands that even if they do all of the right things to modernize They're still screwed to some degree the the environment changed and nobody likes Nobody likes that but am I wrong?

[00:06:39] Troy: No. And, you know, when you talk about media, there's lots of different types of media businesses, right? But let's talk about brand in the context of media businesses. And so, in magazines and I would argue newspapers, probably radio as well. Brands are really important, right?

Because it's, it's sort of essential context for the reader. and I think really powerful on the monetization side are certainly was pre performance, right? Like before everything was about, how well You know, a particular media vehicle connected you to an audience on a performance basis. But like Brandis context or expectation setting for a consumer is a very powerful thing.

All the news that's fit to print a recommendation from Vogue, an accolade from Forbes, all of those things are kind of meaningful signifiers, I think, to the, to the consumer. but you know, more

[00:07:30] Brian: Okay, but I would say they have been but are they are they really 

[00:07:33] Troy: Yeah, I think 

so. For sure. You mean if someone says a thing or an experience or a hotel, if the Conde Nast traveler says that a hotel is good or a restaurant is good, I mean, I think that you, use it as a shortcut and you would probably think that's a useful source of information and something that gives it some credibility for sure.

Yeah. Why not? 

Right. I guess my point was that before I kind of lost my stream of thought was that the media brand in the video context is actually way less meaningful Like, yeah, we can acknowledge that it was this production company or it was Pixar was a Disney production, but for the most part it's the entertainment brand.

It's the title of the entertainment. That matters. And the sort of who it's from brand is less important. Doesn't matter if it's on NBC or CBS or on Fox or whatever. you know, it's a two step there, right? there's a distribution brand, NBC, and there's the entertainment brand. And there it's way less important.

Versus, if you saw something that was in, a Vogue publication, you expect a high degree of curation. And with that, the brand takes on the meaning of that curation. So it's important. 

[00:08:45] Brian: I mean, I,

think it's, it's historically been important. Sure. Agreed. I don't think in a world of AI agents that that power goes up. I think it gets eroded.

[00:08:53] Troy: yeah, as soon as we start like extrapolating to the AI frontier, everything is blurry and nothing matters, It's like, as soon as you interact with everything through a text box that does all the work for you, nothing matters. My house is buying its own insurance. The brand doesn't matter. My house knows how to evaluate my policy.

[00:09:14] Brian: What, why is that not something to consider? That seems like fairly likely from everything that's going on. I mean, isn't

[00:09:21] Troy: that you're not going to be discerning about where your information comes from because it comes from a robot. You're still good. The brand's gonna matter, more.

I mean, maybe the brand is now something different. It's like my robot is named Vince. He's really reliable. And he has good taste. Taste matters, dude. Curation matters, discernment matters, and it gets embodied in some, in some thing. It's a person, or it's an institution , or whatever. 

[00:09:49] Brian: yeah, yeah, no, I get that. But, but like. Why won't like AI agents replace that shortcut, right? Because over the years I covered advertising and I heard so much of this brand bullshit talk. I was like, okay, I agree somewhat, brands are important, they're a shortcut, it's a complicated world and you need to, everyone wants to take a shortcut.

Like I'm standing in the Supermarket aisle with a bunch of paper towels and I'm like, okay. Yeah, this paper towel bounty. Picker upper got it. Sure. No idea Seems credible if I'm really cheap I'm gonna go just with a store bought brand but I want stuff to be able to be absorbed 

well, you know, I'm a practical person.

and a lot of brands stuff was too airy for me. I was like, love marks, maybe like Kevin Roberts with Saatchi and there's like love marks. he's like,

it 

makes people crazy. 

[00:10:39] Troy: okay, but that's true, right? Kevin can do whatever he wants, but all that is, is... Wrapping up a commoditized service competency, right? An ad agency around a concept, Love Marks, to say, we have a different way of thinking about building it. That stuff is just, that's service packaging.

That's fine, right? Put a little idea around an agency and we call it Love Marks instead of brand building or whatever Wolf Owens would say or whatever, any other agency would say. 

[00:11:07] Brian: YNR had some kind of like Geiger counter that they claimed they could wave over a company and it would

have a brand asset valuator.

[00:11:14] Troy: I think you need to be cynical about that as long as it was sort of an idea connected to a process that was presumably connected to the way a bunch of individuals in a company thought. I mean, that's just goes without saying, but, brand in media, my goodness, so important brand in automobiles, so important brand in so many things, fashion, everything, everything.

I 

[00:11:37] Brian: so I guess my question is, why are not the strongest brands doing better in publishing? 

[00:11:42] Troy: okay. You cannot make statements like that.

[00:11:44] Brian: I mean, because it doesn't seem like that sort of brand premium is worth nearly as much.

[00:11:50] Troy: What's the strong brand, Brian Vogue

[00:11:52] Brian: Yeah, sure. Vogue. Vogue's a very strong brand.

[00:11:55] Troy: well, I mean, do I even need to answer this? Like the value creation mechanism in that type of media, which was packaging, content together with advertising and a print thing and giving it away for a low subscription price, selling expensive advertising a gig is up. So then you're like, well, we'll do the digital gig.

And the digital gig kind of sucks. And then you're like, well, we'll do the video gig. And the video gig without systematic or reliable distribution in video, meaning you own a cable channel or you've you have a streaming service. Video is a tough business, right?

And Vogue, because Vogue made the video, it doesn't really change the audience dynamics. So you gotta create show brands and you gotta go through all that and they, they tried harder than anyone else. And I think they did a better job than anyone else. They created more sort of nifty little franchises than other people did.

They didn't monetize very well. And then they got into this sort of production game, taking their IP or producing. television or shows or movies or whatever, and that's a very difficult business. And, when the marketplace is cutting back on the amount of, programming they're buying, it's even more difficult.

So there's another one that went kind of to the shitter. So that business is gone what else did they try to do? So then we're, now we're going to fall back 

on activations and commerce activations. I

mean, are. I think the Met Ball is a meaningful thing, although I think it's kind of a nonprofit thing, although I'm sure they find ways to make money off of it.

And commerce, commerce is at an inflection point as far as I can tell. I mean, if you're in what I would call product commerce, which is, getting people to buy shit from Nordstrom or Amazon or whatever, there's so much competition there and it's really a game of, of getting into the SERP, the search engine page, and being that page that, and it, by the way, it, it, can pervert what you create because it's like hamster stuff.

Like if you make this kind of content, we will give you a pellet and it will come in the form of affiliate revenue from Amazon. So it really isn't about what you want to make, right? It's about what you're paid to make. it's, it's tough game. 

[00:14:03] Brian: I feel like you're agreeing with me by disagreeing with

[00:14:06] Troy: Well, what I'm doing is just going through the different parts of the media, like, so then you've got this amazing media brand I would argue Forbes is an amazing media brand because it means everything

and nothing. 

[00:14:17] Brian: Oh, give me the case of that. I definitely hear it in, rap music

[00:14:20] Troy: Well, it's super valuable across so many categories it just like really operates in a vast, vast way. from health to finance, to news, to politics, to pretty much every category Forbes is there. And so when it shows up, I mean, you have to sort of think what does it mean to the consumer? Or if someone, if a consumer stumbles on a Forbes list of the best hotels in Istanbul. Do they click on that above, some other random list because they think that it's credible. And I would argue, yes.

So it's, to me, it's, it's a thin enough wrapper that it makes a difference to your distribution system, makes a little bit of a difference to the consumer. And in that, equation can create value. And they much more than Conde Nast have been completely unencumbered to experiment in so many ways 

[00:15:12] Brian: yeah. 

[00:15:12] Troy: ways to make money.

[00:15:13] Brian: They haven't been precious about how 

[00:15:16] Troy: Absolutely not. 

[00:15:17] Brian: they deploy the brand and, and people might not like, cause look, you know, this, a lot of people find Forbes distasteful, right? A lot of people within the

industry, 

[00:15:27] Troy: A lot of people on the coast in media find it

[00:15:29] Brian: absolutely. 100%. Anytime it's like, Oh,

Forbes, you know? 

[00:15:33] Troy: Everybody else thinks it's the capitalist tool.

[00:15:36] Brian: that's the thing where I think we're actually in agreement.

So the way that you make money and, and continue to leverage the, the brand utility is not in ways that the quote unquote elite types of people think of, right? It's not as elevated, and Forbes is not shy about deploying its brand and sometimes in ways that at least from high, I'm like, wow, that's aggressive.

[00:16:03] Troy: Yeah, but you know what? In fairness to the Forbes folks, I mean, listen, it, first of all, the whole category did not, basically didn't survive. Like the notion of a news magazine or a business magazine has been, I mean, the news magazines died out. I would say that fortune is a shadow of what it was.

business week had to get kind of bought for spare parts by Bloomberg and it's, since become an ingredient brand to a very, very, very good business, So, Forbes, has through. the leveraging of the brand from a licensing perspective or recommendation perspective or affiliate perspective, all the multiple ways that it's done it with lists, the millionaires lists and all the ways that, and then connected events and all that has been able to preserve an editorial function where they produce some great content.

And yeah, do they have a contributor network that maybe dilutes it? Yes. Was that created at a point in time when you wanted to bring down content costs and massively expand your footprint? It was a scale play. but they still have, to their credit, a pretty vital editorial function.

When others don't. 

[00:17:08] Brian: by the way, they, they've been doing a lot of really good work, particularly

in, in, in their tech desk. Their tech desk has really done some great work. And in many cases, and, and maybe this is me being one of the snooty people, I think they almost do it a disservice by giving it the full, the full Forbes monetization approach when I'm like, embracing myself when I

land, when I click on, 

[00:17:28] Troy: Well, they're aggressive with their monetization , to 

[00:17:30] Brian: what do you call it?

No, you, you would some term for, I have to go back in our text threads. It's a great euphemism. I forget it. anyway, yes, they're, they're a little aggressive with the monetization, but these days you got to be aggressive with monetization. And so the future basically are for legacy brands is more of them to look like Forbes.

[00:17:49] Troy: Well, you know, I heard twice this week. what was it? I heard Scott Galloway say it and I heard, I think your friend John Kelly say it, that it's the third owner of a hotel or real estate that makes money off of it. in some ways, this ip, these legacy media brands are going to have to be freed from.

The sort of, legacy encumbrances and mental models of a past generation of media owners so that someone can pick them up and say, it's only upside from here because I got it for very little and we are going to figure out 28 ways of turning this into a business by taking its brand credibility in lots of ways.

And maybe through that we can find a place where we can actually get, we can create content we're proud of.

[00:18:36] Brian: Yeah, 

[00:18:37] Troy: but the two step, the classic media two step is a group of well meaning editors are going to create content based on, the lens of a brand and where we are in culture and what they think is important and their reporting and whatever.

And we're going to make that content and it's going to attract an audience. And then sort of separately although there's a dance, of course, a publishing group is going to say, We're going to represent that connection to the audience to a group of media buyers to say, you need our audiences, that that two step makes something right.

And then hire a publishing team to sell that thing is a really, really, really difficult business.

[00:19:17] Brian: I actually agree that you probably need a fresh start for a lot of these brands and,the idea that you can just out execute. And I think that brings me back to the Condé Nast thing. I don't know if They've done a quote unquote, the management has done a quote unquote bad job.

I mean, they've done the sort of basic things, like when IP was hot, they went deep into IP. Look, turns out that all the money thrown at by streamers at anyone who's creating programming, well, that was a Zerp phenomenon. That sort of, that was already a difficult business, and a lot of that money went away.

Okay, they pivoted into activations like everyone else. and that's also not a great business. commerce. Okay, great. I don't see how commerce is not at a peak, right? there's a lot of pressures because commerce to me is an SEO strategy in the same way the pivot to video was a Facebook

strategy. SEO, there's already far less traffic going. You're the one or someone told you it's like an invasive species for Google. the reality of search is changing to such a degree. I understand why these legacy brands went hard into commerce slash SEO because they saw what I consider kind of minimally plausible brands.

DotDash, I think, created a lot of minimally plausible brands, right? you know, very well doesn't exist outside of a search results page, 

right? It's minimally 

plausible, 

[00:20:44] Troy: Funny. Also, it's a testament to the longterm importance of a media brand, 

[00:20:48] Brian: right? So they, they went out and acquired the, the legacy brands because I don't think minimally plausible brands, whether it's the mattress brands or whatever, are gonna have long term value. That to me is, is a growth hack. I think it's really difficult. To have a brand that grows up within an optimization framework that then moves out of that.

Do you know what I mean?

Because you're doing 

so many things to chase the algorithm.

[00:21:11] Troy: It's funny how the business changes though and one could be very cynical about this but I am not this is the two step I described. So Forbes editorial team go out and create, create a bunch of content. And through that content we will attract an audience of CEOs and CMOs and procurement people and whoever, right?

Senior executives and others in corporations. We will then do a bunch of reader studies and we'll look to package that up and make it relevant to the guy who's buying a payroll system. and really convince their agency that they ought to, that they ought to be in front of this audience.

And that's the two step versus we have a media brand that we've worked really hard to kind of build credibility around over the years. And what if the guy that's looking for payroll services actually has a problem, right? Like he wants to find You know, it wants to understand the market, find the best services, and get connected in a clean way to someone that might solve this problem.

And our brand sitting on top of that process, if we do it really well with integrity, and we rank them, and we research them, and we go out and we find the best solutions and what he or she needs to be thinking of, that's a service, that's a great bit of service journalism. if we then take the last mile and wire it up, and we get our people to go out and say to the payroll people, You give us a thousand bucks if we bring you a customer.

I mean, Brian, this is your beat, right? Like, we're going to wire up the last mile of this. And our editorial and connected to our, service journalism and then maybe back behind all of it. We do a lot of, you know, good journalism. It's kind of like the repatriation of the value chain only in a way only made possible by the Internet.

And what's great about it is it's like a no bullshit business. you eat what you kill. If you get the dude that needs to buy the payroll system and you connect him to the guy selling the payroll system, then you can make a lot of money.

[00:23:03] Brian: Yeah, this is what my business is. I'm taking, I'm, I work with customers where they give me their target accounts and I shouldn't, I shouldn't share this. but I will because it's an execution game. And I am crafting year long programs in order to achieve those goals. And some, and some of the deals I'll probably do with, with upside to it because I want to share that.

I don't view, because I look at myself, I've just decided I'm sort of post journalism. I don't understand, I cannot figure out a way. To make money within this, these weird, I never joined the priesthood, but like there are all these weird structures that say you can't do this, you can't do that. Like I was struck by this when, 

[00:23:42] Troy: What you're saying is radical , by the way. It was, like, five years ago. I mean, yeah, I mean, you're talking like, 

[00:23:49] Brian: oh good, 

[00:23:49] Troy: like dirty business talk.

[00:23:51] Brian: oh yeah, I'm into that though, I love dirty business talk. . but I was reminded of that, like when, this Hunter Brook, right? And this is the thing, I think, I think it got overplayed with Matt Murray being, advising it. But you need a hook. You know, the ft broke this

and it's a. 

[00:24:06] Troy: what it is, because it's kind of

cool. Maybe it's cool. 

[00:24:09] Brian: it's a, VC backed hedge fund that basically is using quote unquote investigative journalism, and a lot of it is, is, regular investment research, right?

and it is going to use that in order to trade on the information, and then it's going to publish it. And it's being presented not as a quote unquote, 

[00:24:30] Troy: So it's going to sell high value information to someone who can make money. selling assets, and then it's going to reuse the content and give it to, readers for free.

[00:24:38] Brian: yeah.

but the media is the exhaust, right? 

Whereas before, 

[00:24:43] Troy: exactly. 

[00:24:43] Brian: well, it is. I mean, look, I, I wanted to do a different type of business because I was thinking about what my experience was, right? It was very media. It was like, okay, I need to create a surface area.

And then I started to realize, surface area is Kind of unimportant, like in some ways, it's the least valuable thing, and I think what this is saying is, is kind of in some ways similar. Now I know, immediately when it came out, the high priests of journalism got together and were like, we must strike this down.

We don't know what it is, but we must strike this down. And that's the stuff that I think is just holding back this industry. And it's the same way, I've come around to the five hour, energy guy. I made fun of the five hour energy guy taking over Sports Illustrated.

I think we should get him on this podcast because, why not? I think it's an interesting, it's an interesting model, taking over a lot of these, you

know, Sports Illustrated and other assets. 

[00:25:34] Troy: the arena group. 

[00:25:35] Brian: Yeah, yeah. But I think that these kind of things are necessary. The playbooks, I

was talking... 

[00:25:41] Troy: Five Hour Energy guy is clearly a legend.

[00:25:44] Brian: Yeah, he knows what he's doing, clearly. 

[00:25:46] Troy: getting out of the, refrigeration aisle. And putting your product in a small container, by the way, the packaging and the branding is heinous. But anyway, putting it on the counter at gas stations, I mean, that was a legit idea.

it 

[00:25:59] Brian: Yes, you know what? I'm ready. I'm just like, let's turn the keys 

over to the 5 Hour Energy guy. 

[00:26:05] Troy: I should drink them. I never drink them.

[00:26:07] Brian: 5 Hour Energy? No, I 

just drink coffee. coffee does the job, I think. Plenty. actually on on the brand level, I wanted to share this with you. We can cut it out later if we want to. I go to this Cuban cafe here called Cafe Saison, and I do my writing there because I like to do newslettering alfresco, and I have this thing where I think it's just by appearance, I'm very average, and I've accepted that.

It allows me to blend in. 

[00:26:31] Troy: you're quite handsome, actually.

[00:26:32] Brian: Yeah. Well, but in a very generic way. and so nobody remembers my name. I will go to the same place in New York and I'll be giving my name at the, at the sort of bagel place for like four years and they're still asking for it. But here, she's like, what is your name again?

I'm like, Brian. I was like, thank God. now we're going to develop a relationship and it's very good. And then she, she makes my cafe con leche and she's like, Mike, yeah. Mike.

[00:26:57] Troy: You're quite handsome, actually. Ha ha ha!

Yeah, you 

need to work on your 

brand. 

[00:27:00] Brian: my brand problem. So I went because I was like, finally, and I 

believe in personal brands. 

[00:27:04] Troy: You should get like a nose ring or a neck tattoo or 

something. 

[00:27:07] Brian: Well, maybe it'll get me into the nylon house, and I don't know, my chances are doomed now that Jason's gone. So now when I go back, I went back this morning because I had to write a newsletter, And she was like, hey Mike.

[00:27:18] Troy: Hey Mike, how you doing? okay. So I don't have a lot of time. I actually have a dinner date. what else happened this week? Briefly in media,

[00:27:25] Brian: Well, I think, to me, and this is the thing I'm going to, this is our own two step and then I'm going to be talking with Alex in a little bit. I want to get into the, the GPT stuff I don't know if you saw, the OpenAI is doing their own, kind of Apple keynote presentations. Now, it's very funny in that the, the same framework is used and, the same mannerisms and stuff.

It's just amazing. It's like, 

[00:27:46] Troy: you 

[00:27:47] Brian: yeah. They didn't do the one more thing, but they came out with 

these. 

[00:27:50] Troy: best, AI ever

[00:27:51] Brian: Yeah, they, they did it a little bit more. I will say this, having watched a big portion of it, I do think these things will change. And actually I credit Trump in some ways in that they're less rehearsed and they're more casual. And I think that is actually happening. I know I'm giving credit to Donald Trump, and people are going to freak out, but I do believe that it's going to be less manicured

in some

[00:28:14] Troy: I 

[00:28:15] Brian: because 

[00:28:16] Troy: news. So they did a, here's our new GPT thing.

[00:28:18] Brian: yeah, and they're basically coming out with these agents that are going to interact in, the quote unquote, the real world. And so this is coming down the pike. And that's why I just published this. I just wrote about it. And it's part of, to me, the erosion of economic utility of brands. I believe brands are still going to matter.

And I believe some brands will matter more. I think a lot of what I consider quote unquote bullshit. Yeah. Brands are going to matter less, and that's

[00:28:43] Troy: Well, this is a perfect segue. And I thought that this sort of, talk to Troy, then talk to Alex thing was a bit dubious, but he'll have a lot to say on this.

[00:28:52] Brian: what was all about your hamam schedule, to be honest with you, Troy. It wasn't like this was some sort of plan.

[00:28:57] Troy: he'll have a lot to say. 

[00:28:59] Brian: I know. I think he's going to be with me on the bullshit stuff of brands a lot, I think. 




[00:29:03] Part 2
---

[00:29:03] Alex: The power of bundling, yeah.

[00:29:05] Brian: The reality is you don't need the best product.

[00:29:07] Alex: No, at this stage, this is Apple's, MO.

[00:29:11] Brian: What, to just like draft off their distribution like bottleneck?

[00:29:15] Alex: I mean their services stuff is turning Apple into a little bit of a company that... it just knows that the bundle wins everything. The music software isn't great. I mean, they literally released a journaling app, which is like a very basic journaling app. I do like the news product though.

[00:29:32] Brian: Isn't that just like notes?

[00:29:33] Alex: no, 

I shit you 

not 

that 

[00:29:36] Brian: Don't you just open up, I, I did journaling, I just open up a Google doc on my phone and I

[00:29:41] Alex: I, I don't know. It's a, it's an odd app. I don't know where they went into this space and is a journal app. That came with the iOS with the latest update, it popped up on my desktop and it asks you journalists, Oh, it just crashed. So, it's

[00:29:58] Brian: Do people really need that much help?

[00:30:00] Alex: now to me, this type of stuff sometimes feels like one of the executives just started journaling.

And so some, some journaling app likes to, you know, while fixing Siri gets relegated or the fact that they're still selling brand new iMacs with, Mice and keyboards that plug in via a lightning cable, which is now defunct since the, since the iPhone switched to USB C. So I don't know. Apple's in a, in a little bit of a lull.

[00:30:26] Brian: every tech company becomes Microsoft, right? I mean, Google became Microsoft. I mean, not the current Microsoft that somehow had an amazing

revival. 

[00:30:34] Alex: you said that. It's just like,

[00:30:36] Brian: I think that's remarkable. It doesn't get enough attention. that Microsoft really came back like it's hard to, you don't really see that a lot.

I don't think it's not like, I don't know, Sun Microsystems had revival. 

It depends. I guess the categories

[00:30:50] Alex: well, especially in tech, right? I think there is potentially some kitchen good brands or something like that, that had their heyday and then came back. I don't know, but it's gotta be something, but the Microsoft thing has, been pretty wild because everybody thought that they would be, they got attacked by the government and then they got attacked by Google and then they got attacked by Apple and they lost all those fights, right?

And for some reason, losing those fights kind of made them a better company, I think, because they started focusing on, On different things on what they were good 

[00:31:19] Brian: Ballmer. 

[00:31:19] Alex: I don't know. It's

[00:31:22] Brian: Because he basically wrote it down as the CEO and then just bought the clippers and owning an NBA team or an NFL team or anything is just the best thing. Whatever, whatever the team's cost, just pay it because it's going to be worth well more than you paid. Daniel Snyder bought the, what was then the Washington Redskins.

by all accounts, he was the worst owner in the league. I don't think anyone, even he probably wouldn't argue, maybe he would argue with him, but nobody else would. And by the time he was finally forced to sell the scandal plagued enterprise that had failed for a decade plus to even make the playoffs, he like, 10x'd.

a mess, but...

[00:32:02] Alex: Well, I think always bet on The spending power of midlife crisis men It's just like sports cars and and sports teams and Instagram is starting to advertise a lot of midlife crisis for men's type stuff. Lots of, kinesthetics and pants that make my butt look good.

Apparently that's

what I 

[00:32:22] Brian: really? 

[00:32:22] Alex: Yeah. I actually uninstalled, I uninstalled all social media on my phone yesterday.

[00:32:27] Brian: Oh, that's good. How long do you think that'll last?

[00:32:30] Alex: Oh, I don't know. I do feel happier. 48 hours in, 

[00:32:34] Brian: I took, I took, Twitter slash x off, my screen, but I still, I have to go to it manually, but I do, I do. I'm, I'm addicted. It's my menthols. So I talked with Troy, speaking of menthols from hotel room. He was, it was, it was pre Hamam conversation,

[00:32:51] Alex: Uh huh. So he's in Istanbul. 

[00:32:53] Brian: He's in Istanbul, so Troy and I talked about, I wrote this post, Twilight of the Brands, I don't know, there was a lot of different threads to it, but, my main thing is, covering it.

Advertising for many, many years, I always thought there was a lot of bullshit with the whole brand, brand, brand, brand thing, and I just noticed, particularly as publishers lost ground and lost a lot of their economic utility, the one area to always scramble to is brand, you know, because it's impossible, because everyone is like, um, brand, yes, brands are important, Nobody's going to get objections to anyone saying, yes, brands are important, but there's a lot of bullshit brands out there and I wanted to talk to you about, I hope that you dug into the open AI stuff.

I hope you did, that they announced yesterday.

[00:33:41] Alex: I didn't have a chance to watch it

[00:33:43] Brian: Oh, great. 

great. Well, I mean, did I watch all of it? No, but did I read about it? And did I, you know, watch the clips? No, I didn't. I

didn't watch the entire thing. 

[00:33:54] Alex: That's my problem. I 

always, I don't know why I consider this like high content , but I don't want to, To ruin it for myself. So I wait till I have the time to watch the whole thing. And my wife didn't want to watch it. I wonder why.

[00:34:06] Brian: Anyway, I want to talk about, where brands go in this age. I mean, we talked a little bit about the techs last night, but, where brands go in, in the age of AI, because I see a lot of deterioration of the economic value of many brands. Now, brand is like, it stretches across everything, hashtag not all brands, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.

But overall, this. I think it's pretty clear that if the brands are an institution, all institutions are, in decline and the economic utility of brands as a shortcut, meaning like it's a complicated world. I don't know which is the best insurance to get Geico. They, I don't know, they've got the lizards and whatnot.

I don't know. It seems trustworthy. That's, to me, is, is probably in decline. It doesn't mean it goes away, but I think it declines in economic value. Does that make sense at all? Because if you have a world of agents, I mean, this is what they're, they were showing off these, these agents that go out in the real world and accomplish tasks for you.

I don't see how that makes many brands more valuable. I would think it would make a lot of brands less valuable.

[00:35:14] Alex: And one of our listeners, sent an email about that. his name is Lipe Ostorov. I worked with him. I was doing stuff with Yahoo. 

[00:35:22] Brian: Oh yeah, it was the Dutch email.

[00:35:24] Alex: yeah, yeah, 

[00:35:25] Brian: The Dutch are, they're both tall 

and 

[00:35:27] Alex: yes, he's a big fan,

of our bantering, but he,

[00:35:30] Brian: He's literally big. I'm sure he's big. He's 

[00:35:31] Alex: he, he, I don't know, he felt that we could have done a little more on, one of our week, prior week's theme, not yet last week, but when we talked about, brand and he gave us some random thoughts, starters, how do we define brand?

You kind of went into that. What is the value of a media brand as media distribution business models become more challenging 

will people crave incumbent brands? How do creative brands play into this? How do you Build a brand and how do you destroy it? And perhaps, what can the media industry learn from gaming and publishers?

Oh, always, always want a reason to talk about gaming. No. So, I've been kind of maybe, beating the drum about the fact that, once you have an AI chewing everything up. your brand better have a reason to exist as part of that conversation, right? and, I think that there will continue to be brands you wear on a t shirt that are kind of marks of your personality.

know. the Tesla bros, like that's the ultimate one of it, people that will literally wear the t shirt and jump in front of a bullet for Elon Musk that has never done anything for them.

[00:36:33] Brian: But the opposite side are probably people like you, or like my brother, or just like who, who have Tesla because the product is really good and are a little bit, embarrassed by the brand. Because brands today are, are political at the end of the day, because everything is political. And that's a, it cuts both ways. 

[00:36:49] Alex: if you focus, on media brands, though, I just mentioned the Tesla thing because it's interesting. I think there's only this many electric cars you can buy. So it's, it's a little skewed when you look at. People buying Teslas, especially four years ago. So, but when you talk about media brands, I was thinking about that and it was.

kind of running through an exercise if the AI spits out content, I might ask it to supplement it with Bloomberg content. as somebody who's not very into financial news, I would say like Bloomberg seems like a source, they have those terminals, they seem to have. You know, some sort of access to data that I trust, like the, Webster's Dictionary type things or Wikipedia.

I don't know. These, are trusted sources. so I would say Bloomberg is, is right in there. Reuters, for whatever happened to that brand, I think part of it is because it's just like, Every time I search for like, which TV to buy or what credit card to get. Reuters seems to be there.

There seems to be a lot of SEO stuff. that Brian seems to have lost a lot of that appeal. And I wonder if 

[00:37:48] Brian: to be fair, Reuters, Reuters has historically been mostly a B to B brand, meaning that they sort of straddle line. They're not exactly like the Associated Press, but they're meant to be not necessarily a consumer facing brand. All of these. These B to B publishing brands are trying to have consumer businesses as the weight goes to, you gotta have direct relationships with the audience.

You don't want to just be, some

provider. 

[00:38:16] Alex: mean, there's some brands that mean something, even though they're not directly consumer facing brands, like, you mentioned the Associated Press. Like, if you say, well, that came from the Associated Press, it has some gravitas, some cachet, which gives that brand some value.

And PR has some value. but what the internet has forced a lot of these media brands to do is they've kind of eroded that value, right? And I would say, Bloomberg and NPR, even though everybody makes everything political, or the Associated Press, are broadly apolitical brands.

They're not like, I'm wearing the t shirt, I'm planting the flag brand. I mean, I know that's a political statement in its own way, but I think some of these brands are, try to be as neutral as possible within their, their tone. And then, and then there's these brands like what do you think about, incumbent brands like even I would say like or CNN, 

[00:39:07] Brian: well, this was my point. Troy was doing the Troy thing where he like

disagreed with the 

entire premise of what we're talking about, which is always always fun. I'm used to it now. I handle it very well, I think. I'll let the listeners be a judge of that. but he basically was coming down to worshiping Forbes as the model for like a legacy brand.

That's making it happen by not, overthinking it and just, like, scrambling to do whatever they can with the brand to, realize economic value. And look, I think there's a path for that. I don't think it's a very inspiring path necessarily, like, it's no disrespect to Forbes.

They're more successful than most of their competitive set. I mean, you look, Troy made this point, like Business Week is now an ingredient brand to to Bloomberg. Fortune is a, is a shell of itself. Forbes still has a lot of brand value. It's still quoted in, hip hop and, and whatnot, and it's recognizable globally and, they'll put that brand everywhere. 

[00:40:02] Alex: I was saying Reuters earlier. I. Forbes.

[00:40:06] Brian: yeah.

[00:40:07] Alex: I was, I wanted to compare Bloomberg.

[00:40:09] Brian: my God. 

[00:40:11] Alex: Oh, yeah, no, I mean, I am proving

a point. No, Reuters is, the totally generic, like, sub AP brand . Uh, yeah, I actually disagree with Troy Forbes.

I think they just fracked that brand for all the juice. And now Forbes to me feels much more like, Guinness world book of records, it's just a thing. There's going to be the Forbes. Richest people list, but as a media brand, what does it mean? Like it keeps popping up on like what insurance to get or what credit card to buy.

And I know Troy is a fan of that.

[00:40:40] Brian: Well, we like to paint Troy as cheering for power, but he, he cheers for margins

too.

and where you make money in publishing off these brands? I don't think it's necessarily long term, but TBDA lot of these commerce operations are incredibly, lucrative. And what they saw was.

There are a lot of what I call minimally plausible brands that exist only in the world of SEO, right? And you would search, and, and DotDash was really good at this, and they created minimally plausible brands, like very well, like the Spruce. Outside of an SEO search results page, 

these brands don't Really 

[00:41:20] Alex: They don't exist 

[00:41:21] Brian: exist in my world. Like I, there was this great article about Mr. Beast and why a lot of people struggle with understanding Mr. Beast because Mr. Beast outside of a YouTube context and all the optimizations and stuff doesn't really make sense, like in many ways. But, I think of those brands and, legacy brands saw that and look, dot dash saw it.

They bought the Meredith brands because they said, okay, well. We're really good at this optimization stuff and we've created these minimally plausible brands. I know Neil will disagree with me, but that's my take. And what if we put on top of them these legacy brands and we're able to have, if you see better homes and gardens, in a, in a search results context, it still has cache.

That is beyond what, I don't know, SEO brand, you know, the, 

[00:42:06] Alex: right. 

[00:42:07] Brian: the, thebestfork. com or something like daily meal, for instance, the former Forbes. com CEO, Jim Spanfeller, had, been running this, this food,

like the daily meal and stuff. And that's an, it was an 

SEO play for the most part. 

[00:42:18] Alex: But isn't mean, that's, 

totally, you know, I'm not qualified to talk about this, but it's, it feels like a private equity deal where you buy a brand from the early 2000s and, and, pump Costco full of these genes that look, you know, high end for some reason. Right. I always thought that there's in the world of like getting an answer, like what is the best TV? I think there's usually one or two brands that stand out. Like it was quite impressive with what the Wirecutter managed to do because they became that. And I think it was smart of New York Times to see that, right?

they became the internet's consumer reports because consumer report was wasn't free. It was hard to access, right? consumer import still remains like really popular. But if you look at Forbes, the stuff that they're doing and they're probably doing gangbusters with that, right? It's probably going to work for a few years and it's doing really great.

But what they're trying to do is capture all the traffic that for some reason doesn't know about NerdWallet, which is, I think, You know the source of like what the best credit card is in that case, right? And they can only do that by having a smart seo at beating somebody as an seo strategy and what we know is like seo strategies are not forever right ask buzzfeed and They're definitely going to change in the AI world.

[00:43:31] Brian: Well, BuzzFeed was different. That was social. they weren't like an SEO play, but I agree that SEO is to me going through a profound change. And I have not talked with one person who says it's going to result in a, in better businesses for those that are SEO driven because less traffic is already going to publishers.

That's only going to decline with generative

AI, like I 

[00:43:55] Alex: you're, you're right about BuzzFeed. it was purely a social play, but there's hundreds of companies every week that shut down because something changes in the algorithm for SEO. And all of a sudden, the business that was there isn't there. So the problem is does the brand sit?

What happens to the brand when it's being hollowed out like that? Because I think people do lose. trust for a brand when it gets, when it gets overused. I think scarcity is, is somewhat important with the brand. A brand that does too many things becomes nothing, over time.

[00:44:25] Brian: yeah, but it's the normal like life cycle that I think is just going to be accelerated by AI, to me, like AI is an accelerant on a lot of, a lot of things. And, the power of a lot of these brands has been in decline for a while and 

this. To me, will likely speed it up. I mean, every brand has a, has a shelf life.

The idea that anything lasts forever is kind of ridiculous. the idea that Cosmo could mean as much to like, Gen Z women coming of age as it did when Helen Gurley Brown was making it, is farcical if you think

about it as 

[00:45:04] Alex: but I think that in that case, a lot of the lifestyle stuff's been replaced by social media. Right. That was a perfect. One to one replacement because you got more access to stuff, right? People used to buy the magazine on the side of you know, at checkout used to buy the magazine that had celebrity photos.

And now you can get to celebrity photos straight, right? recording artists are doing their own photo shoots and putting them on Instagram and stuff like that so these media brands, I think, we're like. going to get destroyed by social, the, AI revolution, that's happening is going to now kind of start chipping away at these kind of, source brands, new source, financial news source brands.

But I do think What you do with the brand right now will matter in the future. I think Bloomberg has this sense of exclusivity and source, right? That could mean they could, do really well. Like a Bloomberg, specific AI that gives you financial market news 

would probably be what millions of people go to naturally.

Does it make sense?

[00:46:01] Brian: Yeah. No, I mean, but It's funny because there's all these exceptions to the rule. I feel like in media and Bloomberg and the New York Times are the two exceptions to

the rule. 

[00:46:08] Alex: some others. Like Sports 

Illustrated or, there's got to be a 

sports one. 

[00:46:12] Brian: Bloomberg is a massive, so we talked about Sports Illustrated actually, I'll get back to that, but Bloomberg's a, is for the publishing industry because Troy and I talked about, publishing industry has always had these big brands, small businesses, right?

And in my heart of hearts, I would like to see those two lines meet at the businesses, the size of the brand, but unfortunately I think it's going to be kind of the opposite way in that the businesses. are not going to meet the size of the brand. In fact, the brand is going to come down to the size of the business.

And so in many instances, I think the exceptions are things like Bloomberg because it's massive. It's a big business for a publishing brand. It's like 5 percent of Bloomberg LP's revenue because of the massive terminal business. So they can they can do tremendous amounts of things. I think the New York Times what they were able to pull off.

I don't see, you look at the Washington Post, the Washington Post can try to run the New York Times playbook, do not believe it's going to work. I think the future of the Washington Post is going to be smaller. I would just make it about Washington D. C., that's a very lucrative area, it's their hometown industry, they should never have been doing e sports and video game coverage.

everyone mourned when they got rid of it I don't know, you're in this industry, were you turning to the Washington Post for 

[00:47:30] Alex: Every category is, is kind of shrinking. And what seems to be happening is that the, in each shrinking category, there's like one dominant player that gobbles up all the attention and then few and fewer smaller players, that are more individualized. I, I noticed, I mean, you were in tech writing, right?

it seems like 10 years ago, I, I had all my RSS feed and I had dozens upon dozens of tech sites. that I would, that I would scan and kind of browse the topics. And today it feels like there's a handful of super dominant ones, that have benefited from a lot of these smaller sites, just like disappearing or becoming irrelevant.

Like I think the verge is actually, a decently sized. Tech site today and their podcast is huge. And I think that's the you know, look around and there's a lot less competition And I think it feels like that in each of these categories are going there's going to be one behemoth and then a bunch of kind of smaller individual players that do just fine But there's not going to be like four or five large properties competing, know And if you look at like culture and news and sports and finance like you can probably call one out today, right?

Does that make sense?

[00:48:38] Brian: Yeah, it makes sense. I mean, Troy has made the point that I mean, historically, the top player gets a disproportionate share advertising dollars. I think what's what's different is that the audience attention is as is being Decoupled from the financial results, mostly because the fungibility of attention, you know, instacart is a major

advertising business.

Now target like all of these things are major. Uber is a major advertising business and Airbnb will at some point, if they're not already be a big advertising business and You don't compete. I mean, this is sort of the point I was trying to get out with the information space episode is you're in an information space and you're competing with everything for attention.

And so the old categories. are sort of blown apart. And that is where I think it's a real struggle for these traditional brands and any brand, whether it's a digitally. Digital brands are now traditional brands to me. I mean, I've been around for 20 plus years and they're competing against people with lower cost bases and they're competing with everyone, everyone on Tik And that's really, really difficult. And they're

competing 

with. 

Supermarkets. 

[00:49:54] Alex: Well, I mean, you talk about being a small publisher and being nimble and you get to have this direct relationship with advertisers and you put advertising right on top of newsletter, which makes me so happy to see, Is it? I mean, outside of the experiential stuff, like those, those great dinners you do, which everyone should 

[00:50:14] Brian: Yeah. Dinner series. 

They're not webinars. They're online forums. 

[00:50:19] Alex: when, when,

people buy an ad spot on your site, why did I spend that dollar there versus just putting it into a programmatic thing that just gets blasted out?

Like, why did I care about being on the rebooting or 

[00:50:32] Brian: Oh, yeah, for sure. I mean, I was like, thinking that all the time. That's why I don't really like to think of selling, sponsorship or advertising. Because you can just as effectively, 

more efficiently reach those people through LinkedIn. I mean, everyone's on LinkedIn, right? So. It's not that, it's not difficult to, to reach people.

I mean, it's mostly around alignment and it's about how can I help them develop relationships with their target customers. And the newsletter is one avenue to that. There's lots of different avenues and that's why everyone ends up in the services business at the end of the day. And Troy and I were talking about how I think there needs to be more models.

For instance, I work with, with clients based off of their You know, target customer lists and like, let's build a program around how we can, ignite conversations with these target customers. And then also in a look alike basis, people that are within. You know, the rebooting cinematic universe is john kelly would say, that fit this profile.

And that's just a different way to me of working with partners. And it becomes it blurs the line between consulting and media. And I think that Troy and I were talking about how a lot of these media models need to be completely rethought and the people who have been Running them to date are probably not the right people to rethink them So I look at you know new models that are coming out like I think we shared this you know this hedge fund model that is basically, it's called Hunterbrook, and they're gonna do, it's not a journalism thing, even though it's gonna have journalists, and it's a VC backed hedge fund, that is hiring lots of reporters, and they're gonna do investigative research, okay, and then they're gonna trade on that research, and then they're gonna publish the research.

So, in that kind of model, 

the media becomes, It's the exhaust. 

[00:52:24] Alex: So it's like, Hindenburg, right? So like, just go in, do some research, find out that a company is valued highly is actually a, problematic, go short on it. And then right after you go short on it, release the thing. And then, your reporting actually moves to market and benefits you.

Right. 

[00:52:42] Brian: Similarly. Yeah. it raised the hackles of a lot of the priestly cast of of journalism, but it's not, to me, I'm like, you have to get out of these strictures of the past, and. there's too many times where a lot of these organizations are fighting with two hands behind their back, and they just can't afford to

necessarily. I believe in ethics, being up front with people and all of that,

[00:53:02] Alex: I mean, it's an honest 

business model, I mean, in

some ways, right? It's just very, mercenary, you touched upon, just to go back on something you touched upon before, you touched upon affiliation, because we're talking about brands, right? And, and not business models.

So these business models, there's lots of business models that are interesting, whether it's tasteful, webinars, or, 

[00:53:23] Brian: Online forums 

[00:53:24] Alex: going out there and doing some investigative reporting. So you can 

short a stock, 

at its core brand. It's really powerful when it's powerful by affiliation, like, you know, we at Airbnb, we used to say, would you wear the T shirt?

And I don't know how many people would wear the Airbnb T shirt, but there's kind of, it should be the goal that people want to wear your T shirt. Right. And I wonder how much of that also works with advertisers, like putting your brand alongside another brand, or not, right? If you're going to specifically, and that's probably gets you extra dollars, right?

If, if the rebooting is a cool brand and you're a young startup that wants to have. You know, be connected to a brand. Is that your ambition with the rebooting? 

[00:54:04] Brian: mean, honestly, like, a lot of it is, 

[00:54:07] Alex: Cause we got work to do as, as, as your brand consultant, we got some work to do, but we're getting there. 

[00:54:11] Brian: well, I appreciate that. But a lot of it is tied around me, as a person and as someone who's been in a field for a long period of time and hopefully has developed something of a reputation that's mostly positive, that is the equity. I don't know if the rebooting as a brand has, I mean, I would love it to be differently, but at this point, I think.

For instance, Sam Altman, during his demo, he made a GPT based off of all the advice he had given to startup founders and stuff. And 

it was Sam Altman. It wasn't, It wasn't, Y Combinator. 

[00:54:47] Alex: Yeah. It's their custom chatbots, right 

[00:54:49] Brian: yeah, that's why I think if there's the most defensible position is brands that are tied to, Individuals and, and humans in this, because the idea that like, this inanimate brand, Potem, or something like this, that has totally different people doing it, than were doing it ten years ago, is still the same thing, just doesn't necessarily make sense.

I think it made sense in a world where there was far less stuff out there, And people were more loyal, so to speak, and just we're, we're tied into habits. I, I don't see that, that that is as strongly defensible. I don't think brand is a moat

in most cases is as, much of a moat to be honest with you. 

[00:55:33] Alex: I mean, I think it, really much can be when you build trust around the brand, because then, you know, very powerful brand can get you through a lot, but in your case, why don't you call the company, you know, the Brian Morrissey experience and, and go from there.

I think there's a, there's a few reasons to do the brand. I mean, I think one, you might want to communicate something a little less like ego driven, right? You might want to, uh, the ability to bring on partners and have a collective voice, right? You're, that's your team, you know, your team blue and you've got five people in it.

that can have value,

[00:56:08] Brian: tied to an individual. I 

guess my my point is it's tied 

to 

an individual. Like, 

[00:56:12] Alex: in media. I think in media has to be tied to individuals. I think that's what we're getting. Right? Yes. 

[00:56:16] Brian: that, that's, that's my point. It's like it, it, it's just much more defensible. I feel like if you're tied to an individual and too many people are too focused on, well, I want to create enterprise value. And they're thinking about the end result I was talking to a guy yesterday, I have a podcast coming out with him.

He basically does something very similar to me, but in higher education, he was the editor and then an executive at the Chronicle of Higher Education, which is the main trade publication for colleges and universities, endowments, et cetera. And, you know, he left seven years ago and started his own thing. and it's completely around him as a person. He does a lot of the, you know, similar dinners and stuff like this. So we've, we've traded notes over the years and he was talking to me about how. He would get this advice to create the, the morning brew of higher education. Right? And they're like, yeah, that's what you should do.

And then he was, he was like, I don't know if I really want to do that. And then he was talking to a friend or an advisor who said, Jeff, Why are you trying to build the thing that you ran away from? And I know that was very telling because I feel like a lot of people end up just trying to follow what.

other people say that you should be doing and expect you to be doing and, and to build, a quote unquote big brand or something. And I just don't, believe that they're going to be as powerful as they were, previous generation. I mean, I look at like in my field, ad week, what is ad week?

I work there. I stopped working there in 2010 or 2011 or something like this. It's the same brand. It's, it's nothing. It's completely 

different. completely different. It's just a name and a logo is 

the 

[00:57:55] Alex: Right. 

Right. But I wonder if 

there's these, legacy brands If you take any category, right, and you ask which brand pops into your head, I mentioned MTV, right, like for music videos, let's say, right, 

[00:58:09] Brian: Incredibly strong brand in our 

[00:58:12] Alex: in our childhood, but I 

wonder if 

there's a because legacy and, history and nostalgia, all of these things are powerful components of a brand.

So I think well managed any one of those brands. could be resuscitated. I think when there's a big shift like this, like the one we're seeing happening, you're going to see new brands and you also see an opportunity for like old brands to be reinvented, think when you get one of those old brands, the, traditional strategy is the kind of milk the brand for all it's got until it's worth absolutely nothing, right? Which is, what we're seeing with a lot of private equity, stuff. which is a fine business model, right? get your money. 

[00:58:48] Brian: the vampire strategy. 

[00:58:50] Alex: but there's also ways of kind 

of building something and collecting a lot of different things around the brand that is the thing, Like when you ask most people, like Consumer Report is one of those brands, right? Like Wirecutter built it, but Consumer Report is a brand I can see existing in 100 years. Does that make sense?

[00:59:07] Brian: Yeah, I'm just trying to think. I'm not sure if I agree, but I mean, I could see it. I mean, look, they've existed for a hundred years. I don't think that consumer reports as a brand is 

nearly as important as It was 25 years ago

for 

[00:59:21] Alex: It isn't, but I think as the market shifts, it's harder to run a business that just tests TVs all day. Because most of these sites, including the Wirecutter, you know, work through commission links. Right. and so with AI, that whole model could be upended somehow. Right. I can ask an AI today, find me the best three TVs and it does a collection of, of not only, our things.

com and, Wirecutter and Amazon reviews and stuff like that. And then I get a completely new list that is actually maybe, more valuable to me, but something like consumer reports, just in the back of your mind, when you think about like, where am I going to go? That's the site you might want to go into.

And I could be the biggest fish in a much smaller pond in the future. If you 

handled it right, from a brand 

[01:00:07] Brian: not to be too. sci fi about it, but if we're all going to have agents that are deployed to do all of this, because brands were always a shortcut because it was a pain in the ass and then Wirecutter basically did that in that, I don't want to go through and figure out which TV to 

buy. I'll just go to, Wirecutter and be like, okay, your best bet. Yeah, that's fine. That sounds good to me. and people just use it as shortcuts right at the end of the day. And Agents are going to be the shortcut, because publishers basically, a lot of their, advertising revenue, because they can't compete on performance, is around this squishy area of brand, won't, the effectiveness of brand advertising, which has already been eroding, right, in the, with, with the rise of performance marketing, which is basically direct marketing, I don't understand, if agents are making decisions, what is the function of brand advertising then?

I 

[01:00:58] Alex: I mean, there's going to be a, there's going to be a 

ton of value destruction that comes with the value creation of AI, right? I you know, you have a pond of Like a whole ecosystem of middlemen, kind of, you know, connecting with each other, creating some sort of economy and this giant middleman is going to come and gobble this all up and a lot of these things are going to disappear.

and the agents will like have specific tasks and maybe the source will become important for certain things. Right? Like if I want specific medical advice or specific financial advice, the source might become important, But at the end of the day, some like, a lot of the purchasing decisions, like what are the best pants or headphones or whatever, I don't really need to trust its source anymore. I just say, get me the best pants. You know what I like. And the thing's just going to go out there and get it. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. 

[01:01:46] Brian: there's so many categories like that and there's so much money that is spent to build these connotations in people's minds that causes them to make a purchase of one product versus

another product on the basis of this magic 

we call brand. yeah, 

[01:02:03] Alex: for a lot of 

Things like TVs, these purchasing decisions are going to be a mixture of some sort of agent and your own personal tastes, right? But you can imagine brands like men's lifestyle brands, like what coat to wear, which shoes to wear this spring, that type of stuff still has value.

for a lot of people who want to just like dress a certain way and want to be inspired to do so. and so I think there's 

there's always space 

for an opinion. 

but media is still stuck with one foot in a world of, we need to get information to the people. Like, sometimes it felt like media was still in the world of like the printing press.

Oh, if we don't print these words on paper and deliver it in somebody's house. They won't know what anything is completely forgetting that I mean, even Google , right, was underestimated. with how people use that to find information, like it's crazy to see what's in a 

[01:02:54] Brian: Oh, yeah. 

The Financial Times,

I 

love the FT, 

but the Financial Times still prints 

the stock index. I'm like, are 

[01:03:02] Alex: what does that mean? Yeah, no, it's, it's out of date by the time it gets printed. This is insane. 

[01:03:09] Brian: Who is waiting for the Financial 

Times to 

check on a stock price?

[01:03:13] Alex: right. and so I

think 

a potentially good exercise for brands to do is say, we keep saying it, it's like, okay, who are our characters? Like, who are the people who represent our brand? what value can we provide uniquely? And also, how much of the shit we're doing right now is completely redundant? Right? Imagine the focus you could have if you cut back on all the stuff that's redundant. you know, and I think that's going to take a lot of courage to do some of that. But, I think it's going to be a disaster for a lot of these companies. I don't mean to laugh, but it's, this is, if, 

[01:03:45] Brian: Gala's humor, that's me, yeah. 

[01:03:47] Alex: by the way, I, I was calculating, 

I used to use Google for pretty much 100 percent of my information seeking, right? Even if I was going into Wikipedia, I would use Google search, right? I would use Google search to get into Reddit or whatever. if that was 100 percent today, AI has taken at least 70% of that chunk.

So going to Google straight and typing a search query in Google is 30% 

[01:04:08] Brian: Right. 

[01:04:09] Alex: my, my daily activity of 

of searching for in information on the internet. 

[01:04:13] Brian: Yeah. And, and, and search is over 50 percent of most publishers traffic. I mean, even higher for a lot. So 

if the heck goes down, I just, I don't know if I'm like too, too

much into doom and gloom. but 

[01:04:26] Alex: I mean, I'm definitely a, an 

early adopter, but I 

can't 

see 

everyone. I 

show a specific trick of how I get information with AI ends up being impressed and starting to use it. I think most people don't use it because they don't. it takes a lot of time to change these habits. We're still on like running on habit fumes Like this thing is going to change dramatically at some 

point. 

[01:04:47] Brian: Yeah. All right. Well that, that'll give us

a good topic for like, another podcast.


[01:04:51] good product
---

[01:04:55] Alex: Did you do a good product with Troy? 

[01:04:57] Brian: No, we didn't. Do you have a good product?

[01:04:58] Alex: I have a bad product. Or just like an underwhelming product. I got the iPhone 15. course, it's an incredible phone. The camera's incredible. Everything's like really well built. but this year's Apple is, is just, I think it's, it's in some sort of lull where like these, you know, they, they added this like action button, which pretty sure most people will hardly ever use.

It's titanium now, which just, you know, it's a different material and all their laptops kind of basically look the same. They're now faster and I got to a point where there's all this really interesting stuff. It's really great. It's really beautiful, but it's really underwhelming I think that in the next few years, we're going to see maybe Apple struggling because they might be behind on AI, next step of making technology magical and impressive is going to be really integrating AI into this stuff.

and it doesn't look like they're anywhere close and they can keep redesigning, you know, where the port fits and where the buttons are. But, they're another company that I think, might be facing a bigger, challenge than they have in the last 15 years, 

[01:06:02] Brian: Oh, yeah. I think Apple is incredibly challenged across a lot of fronts. I mean, if you think about there's more calls to ban TikTok, right? And, Apple is so tied in with China. And if this becomes geopolitical, and it already is, you don't need to be doing a lot of game theory to understand what's going to happen.

I mean, what happens if China just cracks down on Apple, like they're cracking down on lots of different businesses

and 

they can't reroute their supply chains to 

[01:06:35] Alex: there's not enough engineers in the world to do that. But yeah, I mean, Even if China is fine. there's an interface shift happening and 

it's 

[01:06:43] Brian: yeah. 

[01:06:43] Alex: entirely in software. 

[01:06:45] Brian: Well, that's also, I mean, this is another great episode actually, because I wanted to talk about there's this universal UI that, OpenAI is talking about. And so I think we need to talk about that because I think it's part of this interface shift and we've done some episodes on, on the interface.

And this seems like a major change

that is going to affect, obviously not just media companies. Media 

companies are 

downstream of downstream of downstream of all these changes. 

[01:07:09] Alex: it's, it's our Star Trek future. And, and also like just to close up on an actual good product, I really recommend Star Trek. Brave new worlds or strange new worlds there's finally a new Star Trek show, which is good and optimistic 

[01:07:22] Brian: show with like humans in it? 

[01:07:23] Alex: Star Trek show. It's it's episodic. It's they visit a different planet 

every 

week.

It's fantastic It's 

really 

[01:07:30] Brian: Can I ask you why? I don't understand. It's like I watched Star Trek as a kid,

you know, why can't things just end? becoming Andy Rooney? why can't they just end? 

[01:07:40] Alex: I think at some point some 

Franchises just become a category of their own. Like, it's like saying like, why can't zombie movies or vampire movies end? 

I think just, well hang on, but I think something like Star Trek 

Has turned into a genre of its 

own. It's its own genre. of sci fi and we like the idea of the enterprise and, and a crew that solves issue in a very specific type of world.

I think some of, some of these IPs, have a lifespan that kind of is more of a genre lifespan than, than, you know, we'll see a 

Frankenstein 

movies until we'll see a 

Romeo and Juliet story told over and over again. 

[01:08:19] Brian: Yeah, but it's, it's different. I mean, this is, this is just like the CFOs want to de 

risk and franchises are less risky as a form of, of 

art and 

creativity than actually creating 

something from scratch that might bomb. 

[01:08:32] Alex: there's. definitely 

some of 

that, but not every franchise applies 

itself to that, like Indiana Jones is not doing well at that, but something like Star Trek, because it's, it's a 

vessel for telling a certain type of story, I think, yeah,

[01:08:45] Brian: I'm rooting against every franchise. Marvel, 

[01:08:48] Alex: go against that Star Trek nerds, you've went first against the 

Disney adults, the Star Trek

nerds, you're gonna just like, I want you to have a successful business, you know, most of your customers are probably into this stuff. 


[01:08:59] outro
---

[01:08:59] Alex: Anyway, All right, 

[01:09:01] Brian: want to 

I don't want to 

mess with 

the business. There's enough headwinds out there, as they say.

[01:09:04] Alex: let's, wrap it up. 

[01:09:06] Brian: if there's not ads on it, there's 

just some sort of 

alternative monetization. 

That's just how human beings work. 

[01:09:13] Alex: Yep. 

[01:09:14] Brian: That's, that's what it is. when I'm,

explaining how I take the ,client lists and stuff, I'm trying to get clients. That's what I'm doing. 

[01:09:20] Alex: Yeah, no, I get that. I kind of set you up for, like, a pitch. A business pitch. 

[01:09:26] Brian: 

