PvA S3E139
===


[00:00:00] PvA Live @ Cannes
---

​

[00:00:01] Brian: this is going to be like a live recording of people versus algorithms, but my two co-hosts are not in Cannes.

And so playing, um,

Troy Young is gonna be Neil Vogel. Okay. And 

playing. No, 

Alex Schleifer is gonna be Sarah Fisher. and then we're just gonna go with that.

[00:00:20] Sarah: Can we just set the scene real fast guys, for those that are listening? We are in Cam France. It is beautiful.

There is a villa at the Don. We're at the Don Mirror Villa. There's a pool and then there's about 50 sweaty people staring at 

us, 

[00:00:35] Brian: dying.

here. it's 

​


[00:01:00] Welcome to PvA @ Cannes
---

[00:01:00] Brian: Thank you everyone for coming. I know it was very hot to get up here.

And so, if anyone wants to get in the pool later. You know, feel free. Really. There you go. Paul's going, I already, Paul, Paul was checking out the, the temperature of the pool earlier. I saw you, leaning down. but before we start, I have a, you know, I always like to ask people for, you know, some canned stories. So I have to tell you my canned story from last night because I had a networking dinner that I was doing, with a client I, I might add.

And, you know, I didn't, I didn't pay attention when we were booking the place. We booked Oli. and apparently I got the DJ table at Oli. I don't know if any of you have been to Oli. it's not really the best place to be discussing, the sort of alternative identifiers or Google Zero or any of that.

And so we were in a club store for a good, four hours last night. and at the very least it was an unforgettable can experience. But, I'm excited for this conversation that we're gonna have. You know, basically we're at the end of the week. I want it to be optimistic. I know Neil is always like telling me I'm negative.

He once sent me an email that just said, you're one negative dude, um, with no punctuation, which is always a power move, you know, no subject, and you're one negative dude. No punctuation

[00:02:14] Neil: accurate,

[00:02:15] Brian: accurate. 


[00:02:16] Sustainable Media Ecosystem Of The Future
---

[00:02:16] Brian: But I want to be, I want to be positive because I think we all wanna have like a sustainable media ecosystem.

And, I think the question is, I'd, I'd been joking with, John Roberts,from.here, about this and what was it? It was the gn. It, it's the. Underpants gnome. So it was like, you know, step one, collect all the underpants. Step three is profit. Step two is a big question mark. We are firmly, firmly in the question mark, phase of these things.

before I came here, I was talking with someone. I'll just, I'll anm anonymize this person who's in, you know, the tech industry I would then come into to media. and I think the last words he had for me was. The, the eyeball, the eyeball economy is dead. And so basically his point was Neil's shaking his head for those listening.

[00:03:02] Neil: this everyone makes grand announcements. They're so fucking stupid.

let, oh wait, they're pop. We're recording.

[00:03:07] Brian: Let me continue with the grand pronouncement. basically, you know, the point was that. It's basically like, you know, the, the car and the model t that, you know, you needed to put, roads in and then, you know, because people were on the roads, we put billboards in.

But now we basically, you know, with ai, we're gonna have flying cars, so like, what's gonna happen to the billboards? And so the point was. What is gonna come after, you know, not just the page economy, but also, you know, the display ad economy. Like, what is going to happen to this? So I want to start off, first we're gonna start with, with Sarah, right?

So where you, you're like, every day in this, you know, reporting on this industry, get, paint me because I'm a negative dude. Paint me like a positive picture of, of how this is going to turn out. For the best. Well give me a, give me a best case scenario.

[00:04:01] Sarah: have been a lot of crappy free loaders and they're gonna get wiped out, so that's good. I think like a lot of sites suck because they just fill up their page with commoditized content just to grab your attention and get the ad revenue and they will all be weeded out.

So I'm optimistic about that. And then I think for everybody else that's legit and has really valuable content, they're just gonna find other ways to monetize it, like licensing revenue or subscriptions or events or what have you. And if you have really legit content and you can't figure it out how to monetize it, then I don't feel bad for you.

There's a million ways that you can do it.

[00:04:38] Neil: Concur. 

[00:04:39] Brian: But Neil, just give me like three years from now, just give me, paint me a picture three years from now.

'cause there's a lot in flux right now. What is, what is, what does your business look

[00:04:48] Neil: like? 

I have no idea. I don't, I don't know. I dunno what's gonna look.

No, it's not like the, we talk about this all the time. The. The great tragedy of media is how it covers media. E, everyone is like naval 

[00:05:01] Brian: Two against one. 

[00:05:01] Neil: All people can talk about are the same seven companies that have terrible business models, and people have confused it with this being a bad business. It's not.

For the last a hundred years. If you have brands that people care about, you make content that is necessary to somebody, essential to somebody important to somebody. You can build great audiences and then you can make money any number of ways and you'll be fine. I have no idea what tactics anyone's gonna use in three years and anyone who, the 80% of the people who sit on stage and tell you what tactics someone's gonna use in three years.

They're idiots, they're dumb. They're trying, they're, they're looking for a ride here because they're getting a ride here. That's not the future of media. The future of media is if you make something valuable to an audience that is loyal to you. You'll be fine. But as a media company, you are not entitled to your audience.

You're not entitled to make assets that people don't want anymore because you want to make them. You have to go to where your audience is and you have to make what they want. And if your brands don't serve that you have a problem. Get other brands, all your brands do something. But like this, this, the, the question that even asking that question is like the entitlement of media you don't deserve.

We have no right for that to expect an audience and figure goes, you have to go get it. Thank you and 

[00:06:19] Sarah: night. So 

in three years, 

everyone's just hustling. 

[00:06:22] Neil: no, but it's true. It's true.

[00:06:24] Brian: Go on, Sarah.

[00:06:25] Sarah: No,

I just think that what Neil's saying, like, we don't know what's happening. All we know is that we were, we'll have to hustle even harder.

And I, I'm hopeful that it'll be even more rewarding for the, for those that crush it and can succeed. But I think back three years before this time. There's no way We were talking about ai. No, we weren't talking about chatbots. There's so many different things that we had no idea were coming. So I'm with Neil that we can't make grand predictions about tactical things like what type of revenue models and what types of products will be there.

I just think you can, the only thing that you control is your attitude, and we talk about this all the time. You can't be precious. You can't be sentimental, you can't be wed to the way things were done in the past. You just have to be like pumped about. The journey, enjoy the journey and then you will survive and eventually get to the 

[00:07:10] Neil: The

the same things I've been coming here off and on for like the last 20, 25 years, the same things have been dying for 25 years. The cause has been different. First it was the internet, then it was mobile's gonna kill, then it was this, then it was that, and the people who've been smart and thoughtful.

Still here. The mix of who's here is bonkers is totally different, but the people who are here are the people who've been resilient, who've understood their real value to human beings and run in that direction. And that's the only way to do this.

[00:07:38] Brian: Right. Well, I mean, I, I, I love it in theory. I I, and I agree. I I'm not sure if you can just be like, you know, having a positive attitude is great, and it definitely, like, is, is optimism is, is very powerful thing.

[00:07:53] Sarah: you you asked us for the 

[00:07:54] Brian: optimism. Yeah.

no, I 

[00:07:55] Neil: but no, but to answer your question, like, let's put real facts behind that. We as a, we're a public company.

Everybody can see what We're the last, wrong 'cause we're, we've. Grown for the last, six straight quarters and Wall Street has us growing for a seventh straight. We do nearly 2 billion in revenue. We made more than $300 million in EBITDA last year. We are consistently growing.

We have really great healthy assets. That is the proof of the rest of what. I'm saying 99% of the people here are not accountable to what they're saying. The guys that matter, they're accountable. The guys at Google, they're accountable. 'cause there's numbers and there's math behind it. There's numbers and math behind what we're saying, which is why like when we say we're optimistic, it doesn't mean it's not hard, but like it's gotta be fun.

And like we have people and we have travel and leisure, and we have food and wine. If you can't make a go with those things, you can't have fun doing it. You can't make more money than you did last year than like you either had a bad year or you're not that good at it. And like we're pretty good at it so far and that's why we're optimistic.


[00:08:54] Changes in Advertising
---

[00:08:54] Brian: Yeah. So what is growing out of that? I mean, 'cause like I guess what I wonder is, and it's not, I mean you guys have changed your business quite a bit, right? Like, I mean, and what I wonder is like, just to go back to, I know you don't wanna get tactical, but like, you know, display advertising has been the bulwark of this like industry for a long time.

and again, this person I was talking to who works at a very major media company, who was basically saying that there's no future really for display and that like, maybe not now, that's fine. Like, but that, Where do you see that changing then? Like, I mean, what comes after sort of display as the bulwark?

There's all these different ways you can make money off these brands, right? I mean, you're wearing like a food and wine classic hat here, right? There's, we we're all gonna be wearing the food and wine classic hats. And like, I see this all the time in like what publishers want to talk about is really a services business that they're doing.

And there's there that, that's fine. I'm just wondering where, where the sort of. Particularly advertising how that needs to change because clearly consumer habits are changing 

[00:09:58] Neil: totally

you first. 

[00:09:59] Sarah: Well, I think the display business, once it went programmatic, it boomed because it became easy to serve the ads. To buy the ads, to optimize the ads. So I don't, I do think that programmatic and automated ad buying and selling will continue. It's just what's the format of that automated ad buying and selling We're seeing.

Audio programmatic, for example, boom. Spotify is investing very heavily in this. This is the future with CTV, as you know on the actual.com display side. I think what we have to all wrap our heads around a little bit is that the mediums that we're getting information are probably going to be less text based.

Traditional search engine, so the advertising revenue will flow more to the mediums that we're using. I think we're going to be consuming a lot more on audio and through voice. I think we're going to be consuming a lot more of our television through streaming. So yes, display as, as we know them through a search engine that come up as banners and a webpage will die.

That will go away, or it will, you know, deprecate, but. The actual act of buying programmatic automated advertising in different places where consumers are spending their time, that's actually just going to increase. It's a matter of, as a publisher, you need to invest in the areas where those new sort of time and attention spans are going and invest in the ad infrastructure behind it.

Yeah.

[00:11:20] Neil: So the, there's gonna be a very high correlation between people that say display ad is dying, and people whose audiences that they serve are shrinking because when your online audience is shrinking, in fact, it is in fact true display advertising is dying. Display advertising at a medium is a medium is not dying.

It's the opposite of dying, right? the. People want to go to where the performant audiences are, and they will do it any number of ways. They'll advertise with us directly at the Food and Wine Classic in Aspen in Charleston. They'll buy programmatic ads to get across. We're 40% of the recipe traffic on the open web to get across all of our sites to get people to buy their mayonnaise because it is very close to the people who need the mayonnaise when the recipe has mayonnaise in it.

And, They will then maybe do some deal s with commerce, where like, we'll help them sell mayonnaise. There's like, there's a million different ways. Clever ways for people, for people, for marketers to reach audiences. What we have to do is we have to understand what our properties each of them are good at, and do the different thing at the different one.

People magazine is humongous. 9, 10, 11 million user sessions a day. That is a programmatic display business, and it does incredibly well. Our beauty brands in style, birdie, brides, all these things, they're like, we monetize those social. Influencers, events, all kinds of better homes and gardens.

Our biggest home brand, the biggest piece of that business is we're one of the largest licensers inside of Walmart with that brand and the products we make. So it goes back to my, like anyone who makes grand pronouncements, this is dead or that is dead, or that nothing is dead. Radio's not dead, like everything still exists.

It's just all part of a mix and like you have to understand what you have and what your asset is, and what your audience is and how it performs, and then do that.

[00:13:08] Sarah: A quick thing I wanna add on sort of where does the display ad revenue go? I also think search is just diversifying so much. So it used to be that display ads were analogous to mostly Google search results.

Now if people are searching on TikTok, maybe it's brands, sponsoring influencers in response to them. Some search results. If you are searching for product on Amazon, it's a sponsored product type of advertising format. So I think as search diversifies, the ad formats will diversify too with it. 

Uh,

[00:13:36] Brian: Uh. do you think like that just the experience of AI will end up changing the, the format of because I mean, I just think as, as, as it's becomes more conversational, and that's the part I I, I find interesting is the ad formats will need to, to change.

[00:13:53] Sarah: There have to be more personalized for sure. Like, John Roberts from Meredith, who is here, we talked about this all the time, like it can't be one to many. It's gotta be one-to-one. And the advertising needs to be able to meet the consumer, directly head on with their inquiry. I. Their intent in a way that has never been more specific without being creepy. But because we have better contextual targeting like models there, that's an actual possibility.

So what do I mean by that? Like the classic example is if you're a toilet paper company, you buy TV ads because everyone needs toilet paper. And TV reaches a lot of people at once, and that's the most efficient thing. But there's very few products in the world that are toilet paper where everyone basically needs and uses the same type of that product.

For the vast majority of things in the world, what you need is very different from what I need, and each and every message needs to be optimized and targeted. To fit exactly what our intent and need is. That's what AI will do. I think it's not, I think it's gonna be fabulous for the consumer. I think that the consumer is gonna find ads to be more helpful than ever, but I do think that we're just not, we're in a holding period right now.

It's like the awkward teenage phase of getting to that nirvana where we're trying to figure that out. It then, in this, in this short term period, it might not be as seamless of an 

[00:15:09] Neil: The last great evolution in the ad is super simple. It's Google search ads and then 

[00:15:14] Brian: It's the one home

run of internet

[00:15:16] Neil: It's the, it's the everything else in advertising. It's just a different version of something that was done prior. Maybe it's a, we do a very clever targeting thing, right? We do a very, it's called decipher, intent based, contextual targeting. We know people want to do, you don't need cookies. Like, it's great.

It really works. It's not fundamentally new though, it's just like basically what magazines did in 1950 where if you're, if you're Reading food and wine in 1960, you're clearly, we can target based on your intent to cook. Yeah. The, the big change in advertising was what Google could do and then what Meta and Facebook could do with enabling an entire ecosystem of true direct marketers that now is like the underpinning of The underpinning of, of all the spend, there has not been anything since then that's been.

That different, it's all, some form of display, some form of something offer you have your list, which is your audience, making an offer type of creative you can do.

It's some, some combination of that. It's harnessing the intent Google or harnessing this intense, intense profiling on meta That was the only real difference. Everything else did the same, just a more advanced, more data enabled thing of the same, so. I think there's gonna be thing. I don't know what it's gonna be.

I, my gut tells 

[00:16:31] Brian: me

are you gonna make it?

[00:16:32] Neil: Well, I if,

we, if we can figure it out. Yeah. But I think right now, everyone at can, that talks about ai, they're not talking about ai. They're talking about a Right. They're not talking about process. They're, they're just talking about how Right. For the, for the most part, not The no one knows what that's gonna look like. Now it's like. The first second of the play, no one has any idea, and we're very close with OpenAI. They're insanely, unbelievably smart, that page day, every day. Google has tremendous incentives to So the first thing that is gonna be tried on AI to see if it works, there's 

hundred of 

billions of dollars

that says that's not their incentive to blow it up. I don't know what's gonna happen, but you're gonna have to be smart enough to 

[00:17:29] Sarah: I will say with Google though, they have been very smart about diversifying their search ad business. There is search ads, that can be run on shorts, for example.

You can do sort of intent-based query ads on YouTube. It's not anymore just. Chrome browser, for example, because they recognize that the consumer behavior is going to shift as well. So they're trying to skate to the puck as much as we are. I think Neil is absolutely right. They do have to be careful in that balance of not like completely nuking their business overnight.

And the the new AI overview page is something that, you know, it's gonna fundamentally change the amount of clicks out of that search page. Yeah. But they'll find a way to make it so that it still benefits them. They have to.

[00:18:11] Brian: them. 


[00:18:11] Google's Reaction
---

[00:18:11] Brian: Neil, how would you evaluate how Google has reacted to probably the biggest sort of challenge to what's been the best economic model 

[00:18:24] Neil: I 

[00:18:24] Brian: Because like anytime Google, Google basically controls the distribution around the internet, and with great power comes great responsibility, et cetera. But at the same time, you know, they have to look out for themselves obviously. and

it seems

like they're going down a path where they're not really that either they're being forced to or they're just just not really interested in quote unquote protecting the open web as an 

[00:18:52] Neil: they don't care. Let, let's say all the things, right?

We'll say all the things right now. The, the, if you look at 

what 

Google has done, no, 

I don't hate Google at all. I don't Google does. What is in the self-interests of Google? And if I were running Google, I would probably do the same thing. Maybe I would steal less content or do whatever, but I would essentially have to do the same thing.

'cause that's the box they put themselves in. The, everyone here is blaming Google for AI and losing traffic. And that's just not true yet. That's not what's happened over the last two years. What Google's done is they've fundamentally changed the search page. First thing they do is they do a deal with Reddit where they get access to the Reddit fire hose, and all of a sudden Reddit shows up on every search, pushes every publisher down the page how they can do that.

I don't know. It might have something to do with the dominant position they have in search. So they're ensuring their full, fire hose of information to train their AI with, with their deal from Reddit. Then they take all their other Google stuff and they put it on the page, like it's a, this carousel that carousel this, and publishers just get pushed down and down and down, and down, which is in there in the legal setup we have now.

It seems to be fine that no one seems to have a problem with them doing that, so we can't complain about that. So during that time, our search, our share of traffic from 65% of total traffic We knew this was coming, we watched it. overall, our traffic is up because we've done a million other things.

Knowing this was going now what's happening and that that's really gonna hurt us and or other Is the second piece of this, which is the emergence of AI on the search results page, which is despite what publishers tell you, a relatively new phenomenon,

It's

taking up share, it's getting bigger, it's doing this now.

There's AI mode, there's from 65 to 35, for us, that was Google doing Google things. Now it's gonna The AI 

[00:20:38] Brian: part 

Well, doesn't that just inevitably trend to

[00:20:40] Neil: hundred percent. And we literally say in our place, Google Zero. What does our business look like if we get zero audience from Google and how can And some of our brands are gonna do great and some of them are gonna be challenged, but we've mitigated that risk materially It was way bigger than it is now. And, but, but so, so now we have the issue of. No one anticipated when you asked a, a bit ago, like, what are we gonna be doing in three years? Like, I don't know, three years ago we probably didn't an, didn't anticipate some giant Borg stealing all of our content, synthesizing with everything else to come back and compete with us, right?

And choosing, actively choosing not to give us any attribution or very limited attribution or and, and no one making them do that. 

So it

[00:21:22] Brian: sound like you consider them a partner.

[00:21:24] Neil: Well, I mean, listen, it doesn't matter what I consider them. They're operating in their self-interest and playing by the rules that they have to follow.

So us expecting a different outcome would be foolish. We can jump up and down and scream and yell, and maybe we sue them and maybe we don't, and maybe we do this, maybe we do that. But this is the world we live in right now. I don't like where it goes from here. I don't, I love there. I don't want, why would I want it to go to zero?

But, there's been people like OpenAI who have realized the we have great partnery. Google doesn't seem to wanna do that, so we're just living in a world like they're gonna be zero. We know that.

Let's get on with it. 


[00:22:01] AI Media Deals
---

[00:22:01] Brian: Sarah, what, you know in your reporting, like how successful are AI deals that, you know, some companies ha have And, obviously this is to me, like that's the, the big open question is what is an economic structure is going to emerge to replace this page view structure? Because if, if you take that you went to from 63% what to 37% and then that trends even lower, like something must replace that. I understand.

Like it's easy to say like, oh, you just need to like, you know, run your. Business better, et cetera. Like, that's not gonna work for, you know, the, I this is an, this is an annual tradition by the 

[00:22:44] Sarah: the awning.

Okay. a 

[00:22:48] Neil: I'm so 

[00:22:48] Sarah: One 

[00:22:49] Neil: I'm

so 

[00:22:49] Brian: sorry. 

[00:22:49] Sarah: Oh my god. Same.

It's disgusting. quick thing on the Reddit, I interviewed Steve Huffman earlier this week and I asked him that question. Head on, they will push back and vehemently and say like, oh, our Google deal is not why we're up in search. Like people are just organically, you 

know, searching for Reddit and, but, so I'm just flagging that, but, okay.

So. In the beginning, these were really bad deals that I was covering because they were mostly covering training. Like, like giving, I'm gonna give you some dollars to train off your content. You idiots. They already trained, they already copied everything. Those, they

Yes.

those, those deals were really bad and really stupid.

But what has changed is that publishers wisened up and they're now striking deals that give them, you know, monetization opportunity, and licensing around all areas of the AI supply chain, the input, the output, everything. And so we, these deals, we call them rag deals, they're like, you know, real time, access to real time content.

Those I think are much more sustainable and powerful. I think your deal, Neil, has rag involved. You don't have to confirm or deny that, I assume it does, but basically what a publisher's value is, is that it's publishing content that is updated and in real time so that if a user has a certain query, they can trust that it is still valid.

You know, when Neil took over dot dash, he invested like tens of millions of dollars, just quality content, but updating it so that it was still useful. These AI companies need the same thing. They need the updated content. So that's number one. Like the, the publisher deals are getting better and more sustainable because they include the outputs and they include access to the realtime content.

and number two, I think publishers have a different view. In the beginning, I think everyone was so stressed coming outta the pandemic era ad volatility that they were just like money. Now it's a little bit different is they're starting to see value in these deals outside of just dollars. Just Sibley, who we just had on our stage a few moments ago.

Joe, mark and I did an event together with her. she said, I asked her about the monetization thing and she's like, monetization is not the only thing I care about. She's like, I care about experimentation. I care about how I can learn from them to implement their tools and put them on my sites and make my sites better, have better content and have more engagement.

So long. Answer to your short question is the deals are getting smarter. Are they going to be enough to like long-term offset this, sort of search ad drought? It depends on what kind of ecosystem we create. If we can really create, we had a friend that just said this, Matthew Prince, if we can really create scarcity and create a world in which the AI platforms have to do an equitable, fair trade, then yes, there is a future.

And is that possible? It'll be hard, but it's not impossible. But like I said before, we're in this unknown middle ground area where we're not there yet. And that's, that's why you have to be real, real smart about how you structure your deal

[00:25:44] Brian: For this, do you wanna explain like what the, the, because CloudFlare has been talking about this, this turning off the 

and they, they're uniquely positioned as a CDN, as a choke point. And most of the choke points in, are controlled by, you know, a few companies 

[00:26:01] Sarah: so think about this. Remember piracy, right? You could go after the actual individual who, you know, illegally downloaded or illegally, uploaded the film that they took on their camera from a movie theater.

Or you could go after the ISP. I think in the AI world with ip, it's very similar situation. You can go after, The, you know, individual AI companies. But the problem is, even though we talk about Anthropic and Claude and open ai, there's actually hundreds of thousands of AI companies that do all this type of stuff and AI startups that are leveraging IP in different ways.

So what I think the industry is evolving to understand is, one, you can't, obviously you can't go after the user, right? I don't know if, did anyone see the Disney and NBC suing midjourney? Okay, so they, Disney NBC sued an image generation AI company, generated AI company. Like they're pretty explicit about the fact that they're not gonna sue some Rando who uses an AI platform to create an auth unauthorized version of Mickey and Princeton on a t-shirt, right?

They know they have to go at the platform level, but to solve this problem, basically what the cloud servers are saying is. I don't think it's enough to go at the cloud, the platform level. I think you need to go even bigger at the cloud serving level, and that's where you have to cut off the scraping.

[00:27:13] Brian: And so 

they're basic idea is they're

gonna lock it's gonna, it's gonna be, it's gonna be default off, meaning that the internet becomes basically free for users, but paid for bots and that then publishers will whitelist.

They're friendly bots. 

[00:27:29] Neil: Not even that yet. Just free for users, not 

access for bots.

Well, you just like, excuse me, everyone. Everyone's making this jump. Everyone is making 

this

jump. you need a eventually 

You don't economic correct, but you don't need a marketplace. At first, you need leverage first. Then you can figure out the marketplace. Anyone trying to figure out a marketplace before we have leverage, it's not interesting, not to me. If you can turn off the crawlers at the that level and enough people make their own independent decisions, no coordination between us, that they don't want people crawling their content, then maybe people like us have some more leverage and if we have some more leverage, it's a pretty good thing for

[00:28:06] Sarah: us. 

But the next challenge, I completely agree with Neil. The next challenge though is what you said is the whitelisted bots.

So let's say I'm a publisher and I have a fair, what I believe is a fair and equitable deal with open ai. So you need to make sure that that CDN the cloud provider is. Not blocking a crawler from a partner that I have struck a deal with to my site. And that nuance is what's going to be like critical moving forward because the publishers don't wanna stop making deals directly.

They're gonna still want those deals, but the deals will become ineffective if we can't get that 

[00:28:38] Brian: deal Yeah.

But, but that 

[00:28:38] Neil: It's just a, just an on off switch. Like we have a great deal with open ai. They can get through.

No one else is getting through. Maybe we, we probably let Google through because of their position in the market. We don't have a choice because we can't get knocked out of whatever economics they might do. Which is say what you want about, that says about Google's market power, but everybody else is blocked.

Yeah.

[00:28:56] Brian: Okay. So, I'm just wondering like, what do you think about the, the idea, 'cause there's others who are trying to create market that marketplaces, right? That they're, you know, the, the toll bits 

[00:29:05] Sarah: media 

[00:29:06] Brian: prorata. Like, I don't know if those models are 

[00:29:08] Neil: gonna

work. I don't have any opinion yet on the models because there's no model until we get leverage and let's figure out how we get leverage first and then we can connect it to some sort of 

[00:29:18] Brian: I

wanna be optimistic, but publishers have not had leverage since like the beginning of the internet. So how do they, publishers 

[00:29:26] Neil: You're ma Exactly.

So why would, why would any of these guys work if we have no 

leverage? Like 

[00:29:30] Sarah: we on the two-sided marketplace thing. 'cause I've covered tol bit, I've covered a little bit of what Fox Corpus trying to do. pro rata AI is trying to do this.

I think the big challenge is actually not getting the publisher buy-in. It's getting the AI platforms to buy in. Like they, what we were just saying, the reason that we, we, us not having leverage means we can't get them to join our two-sided marketplace. So the idea itself isn't bad, but it will never work until the AI companies embrace it.

That's where they're all getting stuck.

[00:29:59] Neil: Totally. We have a one-sided non marketplace 

right

now. Correct.

Where people come take our stuff and they compete with us with it. But any number of people, that's the market right now.

[00:30:08] Brian: Mm-hmm.

[00:30:09] Neil: End. Like it's not a market. So we gotta try and make it a market.

[00:30:13] Sarah: you know, to your question about what are you optimistic about?

The only answer there is I'm optimistic that one day we will be able to have leverage, but we are just not there. 

[00:30:21] Brian: Yeah.

[00:30:22] Neil: But again, I don't wanna get all of this is happening again. I, I still say that if own intellectual property in some way brand's based on intellectual property in some way.

Your brands are still essential and they're still unique and they're still important, and people still have an emotional connection with them. You'll be fine in this world too. People Magazine is gonna be totally fine in AI World. Entertainment Weekly, totally fine in style, totally fine. Like all these businesses, 

we 

have 

[00:30:49] Brian: recipes.

fine. 

[00:30:51] Neil: We we can debate this.

[00:30:52] Brian: We can 

debate this We can debate it again. 

Why 

[00:30:53] Neil: not?

[00:30:54] Brian: like, I like it. It's not copyright. You can't 

[00:30:56] Neil: copyright, 

you you can't copy, you can't, you can't ai Well, you can, but that's a whole nother hour long conversation the right now. 

Ai 

you can't, you're 

very 

sensitive about 

[00:31:06] Brian: recipes. I 

[00:31:07] Neil: always ask about the recipes. are a lot of ways to make a, I can't do this again. I, I can't do it again. Just suffice it to say, those are gonna be fine. Better homes and garden is gonna be fine, but we have other properties that might not be fine. Like we got other properties that are challenged.

Like, to be honest, Investopedia way more challenged. it's it's a a, a reference site. It has a lot of finances, it has lots of other stuff, but like, it, it, it doesn't have the same kind of resonance. It's a very, very small brand for us to be clear. We love it, but it's small. But our biggest brands are gonna continue to grow and thrive and then we have to be very careful about our other

[00:31:40] Brian: So is the idea, it's like, 'cause I've been told like, doing attribution with AI is really difficult.

And

so even if like you could get some kind of, you know, economic system where you would be compensated, it's really difficult to even tell, particularly in a lot of types of content whose content was 

[00:32:01] Neil: it's not that hard.

If you look at, if you use almost and use chat, there's the little attribution. It's like a tiny little oval and shaded out and like our name might be in it, like it, it's in 

[00:32:11] Sarah: I think the AI companies want us to believe that it's hard to do because that is what, absolves them of the responsibility of paying people out. But I think that there 

[00:32:20] Neil: we're landing rockets in reverse on like something that floats in wa like, come 

[00:32:26] Sarah: Well you like So this. 

is where like pro AI has its own challenges, but where I think it's an interesting model is it's not about attributing every single answer to every single publisher.

It's about doing a little bit more of a collective payout based off of. The participants. I'm not saying that that's, the most fair way to do it, and they do have ways to weight towards the publishers that they think have more weight in the overall answer structure, but there's gonna be, there's gonna have to be something along those lines, because what I don't think is gonna be make sense is that answer by answer.

Every single solitary query gets perfectly parsed out, but there is a way to do it that we can get some sort of a, a marginal attribution to the publishers involved in the system. That makes sense.

[00:33:10] Neil: Look, we have a very nice deal with OpenAI.

Really like we're very happy with it economically, we're very happy with how it works. We get five of those, 10 of whatever, how many of those we get. It would make an amazing licensing line item bigger on our, on our income statement information wholesaler on, some level. That is by no means enough for us to be we aspire to be in that we are right now.

So. This is just another thing that we have to do in things it's fundamentally unfair that people can use your content compensate you can't Like, okay, yeah, let's solve that problem, but don't distract from the fact that you have to do the other things.

You have to do everything else like we've we're. Building like very organically, like a super robust We're a huge partner of Apple News. We're like a huge, we're in all these different places doing all these different things with brands that people love. That is a solution. The more our brands are and the more people love them, connect with them, use them, the more leverage we're gonna have with everybody.

It's gonna help You're gonna need our information right now. No, no. Single source important. And maybe like, but other than that, like But other than that, like everyone else is disposable. We gotta do the best we can that we become a big enough piece of that, that we're important, and 

[00:34:32] Sarah: I'll tell you what 

makes me nervous. I'm watching all publishers recognize, okay, we need to skate away from the Google search problem and invest in something else. And I'm a little worried that a lot of publishers are all gonna try to invest in the same exact thing and crowd each other out as opposed to finding the thing that they're actually organically good at.

Everyone's in events business now 

Yeah, is a great example of

that. There's 

And 

there was, yeah, remember when everyone was in affiliate commerce business and then it just, you know, it was not rising tide lift saw boats. In this situation, I think publishers have to do a good job of uniquely understanding what they do best.

I think Ryan Pauly is here from Vox Media. I don't know where you are. Hi Polly. But like Vox has been very smart about building a podcast network. Like that is their thing. That is the. That. And by the way, they've de invested on the things that don't work as well. Podcast network, like figuring out what is the thing that you do very well is going to be very critical.

'cause just nobody can, obviously nobody can do everything at once, but what I'm seeing is this trend of everyone is sort of building up the businesses that they think, okay, this is what we should do next. I don't think that's gonna work for everyone.


[00:35:38] Consolidation of Publishers
---

[00:35:38] Brian: I I have a question for you, Sarah, 'cause Neil's not gonna answer it. a few years ago there was this idea, I think Goldberg started it like that, that publishers needed to get bigger, that there was gonna be this consolidation took place. And, I think, I think Brian thought he was going to be the consolidator.

but with ai, wouldn't it make sense that, like, when you talk about getting leverage, that like someone like Meredith would need to even need to get bigger.

[00:36:04] Neil: Oh, I'll answer this when she's done.

[00:36:07] Sarah: I think you need to be more authoritative. You don't necessarily need to be bigger. I think AI is going to be biased towards pulling the most informative answers to user queries. There is a question of whether or not everybody sort of does a race to the bottom. Like we didn't search about just publishing content to address what are going to be common use user queries.

that is a little bit of a problem. I, I think that there's going to be people who try to play that game, but I think that's a race to the bottom. I think where you're gonna have the most value with AI is. Are you the best authority on a particular topic? Then you will be much more frequently cited and compensated than somebody, who is just kind of trying to game the system and answer what time is the Super Bowl for every little thing that'll be so commoditized, I can't really imagine how you you'd have 

to be committed to that, Ponzi scheme, if you will.

[00:36:59] Brian: Neil, don't

[00:37:00] Neil: I'll answer this in a non and nothing to do with ai. I have, if you look at media right now, there aren't two Pinterest. There's one, there aren't two Instagrams. There's one, there aren't two Googles. There's one. We're the biggest publisher. But we're not one, I think in the long term for, oh, someone's phone's ringing.

in the long term for this to work, I think publishing as a category is gonna effectively be a one because you're, you're going to need you cannot have too much scale if it's quality scale. You like that, that is the thing. Oh, we're, we're pivoting to small. No, you're not. You just can't grow your audience anymore.

Like you, you. As big as you can get quality audiences, you can monetize as audiences. The trick is maintaining the quality, but I, I do think going forward in terms of capabilities with AI capabilities, with ad tech capabilities, with content creation capabilities, with all the new products and new assets we have to do capabilities with, like literally like reinventing how the, the page looks on the actual internet, all that stuff.

A advantages. Accrue to those with size and scale. And I think in the future of how this works, I think you're gonna have to see, I don't know if it's necessarily gonna be consolidation or, or just lots and lots of growth among the one or two biggest people in this space that end up, they're the publisher, their Pinterest, their Snapchat, their like, you're gonna have to be one of them. 

[00:38:25] Brian: Okay, so that's like a Yes.

[00:38:27] Neil: It's, yeah, I mean, I'm, I'm not sure what we buy or what's for sale, but 

we would, we would like to look, we're looking all of these things and like we've been pretty public for a decipher product, we're looking at like a bunch of ad tech stuff that's interesting.

that could help accelerate our ability to use our data to target the rest of the web we're looking at. We'll always look at smart brands 

[00:38:46] Brian: that

we, but with like decipher for instance, like if, if decipher, if instead of like, you know, you've got a ton of properties, how many properties you guys have now?

[00:38:54] Neil: 40 brands, but forty nine, nineteen we call Core, but

[00:38:56] Brian: Okay, so let's say you have 120 brands.

[00:38:59] Neil: Okay, we don't need 120. You need, you need, you need 10 or 15 big

[00:39:02] Sarah: But I also 

think there's a world where, like my company, you know, we are one brand. We're a bunch of micro brands at the national level. We cover different topics and at the local level, we're in 34 cities.

I think we just need to be the most authoritative in each city, the most. For us, we need to be the most authoritative in each vertical, and we don't need to be the biggest team or the biggest outlet. We just need to know that our, the content needs to be so good. We need to break. So news so well that the.

The AI companies want to and need to rely on our content, especially in real time. Like I'm very excited about being a scoopy reporter in the AI era because if we have these real time deals, people are gonna want the story that breaks first. So I don't know that for everybody. I can see what 

[00:39:48] Neil: no, I mean, I'm talking more for our like we're giant consumer categories. This applies 

to us.

This 

[00:39:52] Sarah: doesn't 

apply 

to 

the 

information

And I'm a, I'm a, little baby B2B, so it's a little bit different. But you know what's kind of exciting about this is that we both there, there's opportunities for both of us. You just gotta play it 

[00:40:02] Neil: a path for everyone.

[00:40:04] Brian: Path for everyone.

[00:40:05] Neil: maybe not everyone.

There's a path for 

most, 

[00:40:06] Brian: not 

[00:40:07] Sarah: the idiots. Come on.

[00:40:08] Brian: Okay. Except for the idiots. Uh,


[00:40:09] Q&A
---

[00:40:09] Brian: let's leave it there. Anyone that have any questions, we're gonna take a couple 

Anyone else? Brian, you wanna talk? remember like years ago you were saying that there's gonna be massive consolidation isn't isn't the time, 

well, 

maybe not. 

[00:40:24] Neil: Brian you gotta pay attention.

We just said that.

[00:40:27] Brian: No, I want you to do more of like a statement because you've like lived through this. I mean Brian, like built bustle and before that Bleacher report.

Okay, so the hair's growing back again, like 

[00:41:31] Sarah: I see Joe Marca has something to say

[00:41:33] Brian: Joe. 

[00:41:57] Neil: we like retail media money. Yeah. No, it's, look, it's everyone is between us and our audience and us and our money. It's another person between us and our money. But we don't do news, we don't do sports, we don't do politics. All of our stuff is super, super intent driven and performant.

So. When the retail media networks have more money they can spend across their own assets, which is now all of them, and that's measured in billions and billions and billions and billions of dollars, it comes right to us and it's great because it's actually making the market better because we have great brands and our inventory really performs and our ads really perform.

We're very good at that and they're great partners for us. So that is an example, like that is a reshuffling of the market that is advantageous to us if we. If you're just paying attention and I'm super. If I'm not optimistic, like what am I doing? I've been doing this for so long, it would be awful.

Like you, you gotta be optimistic and. There are pockets of, of this, and some of the pockets are huge. The retail media network pocket is giant. Like there are pockets of good everywhere. You just have to find it. And the, there's always gonna be bad and difficult, and there's always gonna be good. And the good has gotta accelerate before more than the bad decelerates.

And that's the exercise, the full-time 

[00:43:06] Brian: Yeah. 

[00:43:06] Sarah: I tell you what I'm optimistic about as a reporter? There's all these things that I'm always telling myself, if I had the time, I would be so much scooper. So let me give you an example. Do you remember earlier this year, everyone changed their DEI policies. Every single company that did that put them. The new policies on these remote, sometimes publicly accessible, sometimes only employee accessible websites. And that's how a lot of people started to catch on, that these changes were happening. It wasn't always like a company put out a statement that they were changing their DIDI policies.

If I can start to use AI to program bots to scrape those pages, I'm gonna know about every. filing every DEI change before everybody else. I'm gonna be able to sift through data and find patterns better than I've ever been able to before. I will be a much scooper reporter, and if I'm a scooper reporter, then I'm gonna have so much more value to the LLMs.

So I'm very excited about that. Here's where there's a thing I'm not excited about. Knowing how to use AI and being good at it is a chore. Like anything else, you have to practice it, you have to download it, you have to be embedded in it, and you have to care. And I deeply do care. But you know, that is something that requires time and every single reporter in every single newsroom has to start investing that time.

That is where it's think we're gonna get a little bit tripped up, but if you're willing to invest the time, you're gonna be fire. And I'm excited about that.

[00:44:31] Brian: All right, let's leave it there. Thank you all for coming. Appreciate it.

[00:44:34] Neil: Thanks. 

[00:44:34] Sarah: you. 

[00:44:35] Neil: Fire


[00:44:36] Outro
---

[00:44:36] Troy: That's it for this episode of people versus algorithms where each week we uncover patterns shaping media culture and technology. Big thanks as always to our producer, Vanja Arsenov. She always makes us a little clearer and more understandable and we appreciate her very, very much. If you're enjoying these conversations, we'd love for you to leave us a review.

It helps us get the word out and keeps our community growing. Remember, you can find People vs. Algorithms on Apple Podcasts, on Spotify, and now on YouTube. Thanks for listening and we'll see you again next week.



