PVA S1E49
===


[00:00:00] Cold open
---

[00:00:00] Brian: ​I am pre-gaming, 

[00:00:01] Troy: oh, that's good. Were you drinking

fine wine on the 

podcast? 

[00:00:04] Brian: yeah, why not? I just grilled a fish like on charcoal grill and, it was amazing. This is luxury. 

[00:00:10] Troy: you didn't catch it, did you? 

[00:00:12] Brian: No, I don't fish. Europe has been great. I had a great day today. I swam in the sea, I ate fish. I wrote a newsletter looking at the sea, before I swam. Now I'm gonna walk around some little town.

[00:00:22] Troy: I read this week that the great Elon Musk, had gone to my alma mater, which I didn't know, which is kind of cool, right?

[00:00:29] Alex: I didn't know you went to an alma.

[00:00:30] Brian: which one is 

that?

[00:00:31] Troy: Queens University,

[00:00:33] Alex: Is that like an online

[00:00:37] Troy: actually. No. It's an esteemed institution in Canada. 

[00:00:41] Alex: el?

he spent part of his upbringing in Canada. Yeah. Wow. Not long enough for him to turn. Nice.

[00:00:48] Troy: 


[00:00:48] Intro
---

[00:01:10] Brian: So one of the things I want to 

talk about, it's Elon related, sort of adjacent in some ways. I kind of think we're in like the crack up of mass media, in some ways and any 

sort of, Crack up is like a slow moving thing, but then in retrospect it becomes obvious. And really the mass media era itself was a blip, in some ways historically.

And I think at this point you see the pressures starting to like fracture mass media. And one of the things that Trump is Elon adjacent, or maybe Elon is Trump adjacent. I don't know. but Trump's skipping, he's skipping the debate on Fox, which I think these debates themselves have always been mass media spectacles.

And they were the one time that you could focus all the attention. I think they were sort of overrated in some ways, particularly in the modern era. And they're not made for the modern era. but him like skipping this to me beyond people just saying, well, it's just Trump being Trump. I think it says something about the power of mass media.

Troy, you want to, what do you think about that? My dumb if I spent too much 

[00:02:12] Troy: I think it's huge actually. first of all, thank you for setting that up. I really did want some commentary from you on our last episode that you didn't,participate in. I don't know if you listened to it or not, but, if you did, we, we can get to it at the end. 'cause I really want to hear your critique.

I never listened to it myself. I couldn't bear it without you, Brian, but the, On the Trump thing. I think we think of broadcast spectrum as sort of institution. Certainly in America, like, to me it's, part of the kind of bedrock of our culture. it was interesting to hear that behind the scenes sort of negotiating to ensure that Trump was part of the debate on Fox and to have him, kind of opt out is obviously partly a function of, like his strategic decision and partly a comment on the deteriorating importance of the institution of broadcast media.

I think it's really, really material. I think it's a big get, maybe too polarizing, for the kind of holistic X story or Twitter story, but like to get. A Trump Carlson interview on Twitter's a big deal, I think,

[00:03:19] Brian: Well, it's a big deal, but it's like, it's a Republican debate. Do you remember? Like they used to have the, the last time they have like 40 of these things and there's 12 people on stage and like some really random people. I kind of don't blame Trump for not wanting to be part of that like goat rodeo.

[00:03:34] Troy: I totally agree. But if you, what if you went down the list of all of the critical kind of mass market broadcast affairs and started to see them one after the other fall

to next generation, media environments. So, it started to happen with the Olympics this year when you had to kind of have peacock to see a lot of what was on the Olympics.

You could imagine that, important public announcements, from the president could, take place on. Broadcast and on other places. And increasingly, like in lots of households with young people, people don't even know how to turn the TV on or with old people, like they don't know how to get that signal.

But they could, all of them could go to Twitter, all of them could go to, to a large social platform. So I think that, for that kind of content, that kind of mass content, a free public social environment will need to exist. 'cause it can't be part of paywall structure it's gonna fall out of tv.

And what it does, it's just another really key moment in the death of that medium, which, will for sure happen when sports moves out


[00:04:42] end
---

[00:04:42] Brian: Well, that was my, my question is like, when does the Super Bowl not be on broadcast tv? that's the last domino to fall and that will truly be, you

[00:04:52] Troy: Before that, you'll have second tier award shows, and then you'll have the big award shows and then, yeah, and increasingly news is not consumed that way. And then, and then small morning events, and then a large one like that.

[00:05:04] Alex: on the Trump thing, you, I feel you guys are reading a lot into it. he's such a unique character and the ex situation is so unique that it feels like trying to read what's happening to music by looking at what's happening to Taylor Swift. Like these are very unique individuals and Trump will have his thing and they'll get a bunch of views and then everybody will forget about it.

I don't think it's a win for x. I think there's just a lot of virtue signaling happening there. He could do 

[00:05:30] Troy: could do it on 

how could it not be a win for X? Why is it not a win for

[00:05:34] Alex: I mean, sure, sure. It's gonna, it's gonna be, I don't think it's momentous in that case. I think what we're seeing is that a lot of,

entities, whether they're famous people or companies are going direct.

We've been seeing it for a while, and the pandemic accelerated with these big shows like E three, which was like kind of the, the video game version of the ess Right. drawing all the big publishers. And they finally realized that they could just like, cut a video and put it on YouTube, 

and it would get more audience, more direct. And I think what Trump is doing is the same thing. He's just using a platform, which currently just feels like a right wing talking point in itself. So I don't know if that means a lot. Like, and he's also like, he's somebody that doesn't need debates.

Like if we had other candidates. Need to be on news, on channels that people can turn.

[00:06:23] Brian: Yeah, but he's a challenger, so I mean, I, say yes and no because if you look at, it wasn't that long ago. We had like the weekly radio address from the presidency. that was still happening I think through Obama. Remember. And it's funny because we don't hear it as much now that Biden is president.

it was always like a thing for the Washington Press Court to say how many days the president hasn't had a news conference, as if his job is to have a news conference. And now we never hear about that. And it's really weird to me, first of all, that we never hear about it. And that's over. I mean, Trump ended it.

I think sometimes we sort of actually assign things to Trump that are actually part of a larger shift going on. And I think this is absolutely one of them. I don't think that Presidents see the mass media as so critical right now to how they get their message out, and I think that's a

tell as far as the power of 

[00:07:21] Troy: I mean, it's 

[00:07:22] Alex: I mean, it's also no longer like, what are we saying? TV is dying. Like it's no longer mass media. Most people don't consume content like this, so it makes a lot of sense that you wouldn't wanna be on 

[00:07:31] Brian: well, TV's the most massive mass media that I know of. I mean, that's the definition, I mean, right. Isn't it?

[00:07:37] Troy: yeah, I mean, I think it started the conversation with Brian pointing out that the cracks are emerging and they mattered less when it wasn't about. The primary medium of television and now it's, it's so profound and affects so many more people and the budgets are so much bigger and the consequences are bigger as a result.

So in a very short period of time, we have real interesting kind of manifestations of it from, Disney being at like a major complex crossroads for lots of reasons. One is the change in distribution, so from linear television, and then the challenges of streaming and, there's also inside of that, potentially fatigue a lot of their core franchises.

But Disney's at a real crossroads and, and E S P N is not a, is a huge part of that. even stuff like we talked about in the notes, you guys like all of these displaced, cable stars now looking to figure out what it means to be, a solo media entrepreneur in the new environment, whether that's like.

Don Lemon going on, talking to Kara Swisher about his future as an independent media person or, to hear, Cuomo ranting on newsmax, or, even, phenomenon of, rich entrepreneurs with their own major media outlet or Carlson Tucker as a right wing freelancer on, what T B D network, his own.

yeah. It's just a, it's a bizarre time. I think that there's other data points. Like I, I find this fast thing really kind of interesting because it's like, what if

[00:09:06] Brian: Free ad streaming tv basically.

[00:09:09] Troy: right? So it's basically, an unencumbered cable box. Anybody that can package a few hundred hours of. Free television can package it around a thing, a theme, and distribute it on one of the fast distributors like Pluto or Tubi or Amazon

Fire or Samsung tv. pre-installed. 

[00:09:26] Alex: It's pre-installed 

[00:09:27] Troy: reinstalled. Well, everybody will look for distribution advantage like, right? So you, you, you could have it pre-installed on Samsung. Amazon does it with the Fire Stick. Now you can grab a fire stick and basically you have a cable box with all the channels on there, and all of them are eat what you kill, smaller businesses meaning, your distribution is constrained by, all the things that the Internet's constrained by, like how many people are gonna seek out your content, And so you've got hundreds of free ad supported channels on Fast, and they're now distributed in all these platforms. Those will need to consolidate. But what's more interesting, I think underneath of the fast one is, while the cracks are showing in cable television, we have, major cultural events moving off of television or certainly being challenged by other mediums.

We also have TV kind of reemerging as this free thing off of the cable box. And the consequences are always really quite far reaching because tv in a fast environment doesn't become the same star machine that it used to be. Like the budgets are smaller, it's way more fragmented from a viewing perspective.

it's hard to be Don Lemon, meaning like, you don't become a national public figure because you're an evening host of a news network. it's a very, very interesting time.

[00:10:46] Brian: I'll be interested to see if Don Lemon can be as big of a star as Don Lemon versus c n N, Don Lemon. And I think you, you'll end up finding like who it are, the quote unquote real stars and who we're drafting off of the brands that they were part of. Right. 

And

I think the jury is still out with, with Tucker Carlson, honestly, like Fox is doing fine post Tucker Carlson, and I don't know if he's gonna be another Bill O'Reilly or if he can pull this off as Tucker.

the fox halo is still very big, but I think that'll be a big test. We actually, one of the other issues that I wanted to discuss that, had brought up, we actually got a, a reader request for this, or listener request. What am I saying? and, it was for the next people versus algo. You guys should dissect this deal.

Very Hail Mary and it was the arena group. deal with five, five hour energy guy, the, entrepreneur, behind those five hour energy. what are they drinks? They capsules. What are they? They like zis. 

[00:11:47] Troy: Mm-hmm. I don't even know 

[00:11:48] Brian: see it at the checkout

counter. 

[00:11:50] Troy: in a bottle.

[00:11:51] Brian: Z it a bottle. I don't know if you went through the, the deal structure.

It's an unbelievably complex and it totally fits with the Arena group. and the idea,

yeah, basically, they, they did a very complex deal for, the guy from Five Hour Energy to mostly take control of the company in exchange for like ad commitments. And it's still an agreement in Principle And Arena Group owns like assets including Sports Illustrated, which when I was growing up at least, was a major marquee brand.

And, now it is gonna be controlled by five hour energy guide to like hawk supplements.

[00:12:28] Troy: so full disclosure on a lot of this, so I, I know a little bit about it and I have spoken to. People at the Arena group. and also to be clear, the Arena Group is the kind of living vestige of a company that Alex and I used to, to work

at called Same Media. 

[00:12:43] Brian: That's like say, 

[00:12:45] Troy: could say, 

[00:12:45] Brian: in this.

[00:12:46] Troy: yeah, same media's platform called Tempest became the kind of c m s content management ballast inside of Arena Group.

Many of the people that were at, say Media are including, the C t O is at Arena Group Arena's run by Ross Levinson, who's a, a friend. And,a person that was briefly flirting with being the c e O of Yahoo, as you guys know. there's a bunch of other folks, a a at the Arena group that we know.

So

[00:13:12] Alex: I didn't know that. This is, yeah, this is

[00:13:14] Troy: and Arena Group does not own Sports Illustrated Arena Group Rents, sports Illustrated. Sports Illustrated. It's actually owned by Authentic Brands Group,

[00:13:22] Brian: Well, it's like they own the, like they hawk it out like, but I mean 

they operate 

Sports 

[00:13:27] Troy: They operate it. and, and for the record, I was looking at it today, sports Illustrated on the count of like search execution has done really, really well in building their audience.

So, so good on them. The deal included an ad commitment and $50 million injection into the company, mostly to reduce debt, at the Arena group. And there's some other primary preferred shareholding that was part of it. Needless to say, it was a fairly small amount of money, but what was interesting about it

[00:13:55] Brian: cash. Investment of 50 million. Common equity, 25 million. Preferred stock, 25 million.

[00:14:00] Troy: Okay, so, so this guy, I can't remember his name, Brian, maybe you have it at your fingertips. the gentleman that created Five Hour Energy that bought the company, is kind of interesting. I had read or had been told about this sort of incredible insights around the creation of five Hour itself, which was like, if there's like a peppy, uplifting, herbal whatever, energy drink don't compete in the fridge, where it's sort of refreshment plus energy compete on like, go to where they're not just put it in a small bottle.

It's not about refreshment, it's just about energy and get on the counter at the gas station and at Walmart, which was really, really interesting. The other thing is that anybody that made any claim to x our energy was sued into oblivion. the gentleman's from Detroit an incredibly successful business.

And he was interviewed, I saw this interview with him this morning and he made these kind of, far reaching statements about all the middle men in the ad world, how, media companies don't care about their advertisers and they slice and dice their inventory and why can't it be more like the old days when there were soap operas brought to you by one sponsor?

but

his real point is, well, his, his real point is, The programmatic, sort of industrial complex is madness. It's created sub subpar experiences in media. He's like, I'm not a media guy, but I know simple opportunities when I see them. Media needs to sell shit. I make products and I sell them.

Media is a middle person in that equation. I want to own media so I can sell my products and I think I can create a better experience as a result. What's interesting as well is he created a bunch of kind of cheap and cheerful local, television stations and, to support them, a cheap national news and sports network that just runs kind of endless clips, like 10, 10 news.

so the, the team at Arena is gonna take over that broadcast business and then they're gonna have their digital business. And the whole thing was done for. A small amount of money, but the real premise underneath all of it, or at least according to this interview, is we need to monetize media differently.

and, and I'm gonna plaster the thing with five hour energy ads.

[00:16:14] Brian: I mean, it's kind of depressing. 

[00:16:16] Alex: Fascinating. 

[00:16:17] Brian: like, I mean, it's, it's fascinating I guess, but it's like it, do you know what it reminds me of? It reminds me of when the direct marketing industry took over, like the advertising industry and like,everyone in the ad industry wanted it to be about the glamor of the shoots and stuff like this, but it was all about the, the direct marketing guys like coming in and taking over.

I mean, this is direct marketing, taking over. When you go to five Hour Energies, Wikipedia page, it's like ingredients history, legal issues, that's always when you know you have a good Wikipedia page 

controversies, 

[00:16:48] Alex: first of all, I. Platform that brought me back. I Mean, he's got a point, 

right? 

Like programmatic advertising is, is a hellhole. might as well do it. And It looks 

like, 

you know, I was looking at, the history of M T V and, if you look at what happened to M T V and how quickly it happened, that's what seems to be happening to other media industries.

Now, what M T V had with music and CNN had with news and, potentially said like Sports Illustrator had, with sports that's being, taken from them. the value has gone down. So it means that the advertiser can become the owner or whatever the deal means. I mean, it makes perfect sense to.

[00:17:29] Brian: I mean to me again, like on paper. Sure. I mean, we, we heard about this content and commerce stuff. I mean, you guys talked about the bar stool stuff last, last week. I'm sorry, I missed that. The question is whether, whether it works right, can men's journal or the, the husk of it, whatever it becomes, and whether it's at the ss e o glue factory, I know you hate that term, Troy or not.

does this stuff like actually move these energy shots or whatever the same way as if you put them at the counter? I don't know if that's actually been proven yet. I mean, maybe, maybe man away knows. it just, to me it's like one depressing future for media is being the front operation for, some, energy drink entrepreneur, with legal issues as his number three on his Wikipedia page.


[00:18:12] end
---

[00:18:12] Brian: I mean, it's not glamorous, that's 

[00:18:13] Alex: Well, it's mostly 

him suing people that we're calling things 

x.

[00:18:17] Brian: Okay. 

[00:18:18] Alex: No, it's not a glamorous product, but I 

I think 

at some point, like just investing or buying the company rather than buying the actual audience for, you know, wants the value of these companies continues to drop. Right. It makes more sense to just buy the outlet or make a different structure, a different type of deal.

That makes perfect sense. We're gonna see more and 

more 

of these things. 


[00:18:38] cut
---

[00:18:38] Brian: do think you'll see more of these instances of going around the middleman and just owning the media particularly is just the prices keep falling and, that will make it very attractive too.

Whether these entities can operate media businesses or want to, I think is an open question. I think there's a lot of opportunity there, but I, I wonder about whether they truly wanna deal with the realities of operating a media business. We saw this with Penn and Barstool Penn didn't want the headaches, and it didn't work as well as they thought it was gonna work.

Clearly. I mean, just doing a straight licensing deal from E S P N was better than dealing with the headaches of Dave Portnoy and quote unquote, authentic content.

[00:19:17] Troy: Mm-hmm.

[00:19:17] Alex: It's wild how that thing ended up just selling. I mean, that didn't get how badly these deals can go and how wrong people can get it, know? 

[00:19:31] Brian: there's one I won't say 'cause it hasn't been announced. And, the person told me in confidence, there's one of these

deals that's.

being, well, I told 'em, I told 'em I wouldn't, I'm not in the, I'm not like the reporter reporter anymore. this person basically told me that when you're within one of these companies, that media is not their business.

Once your sponsor leaves, or the person who thought it was a great idea, or there's an acquisition that happens, guess what? you get cut. They like, they lose interest in it. So if you're operating a media business and you want like an exit, I mean we've seen like in B two B this is happening.

Like HubSpot bought the hustle. and it's happened in in a few other instances and it makes a lot of sense on paper. I think HubSpot is different 'cause I think they're really committed to, to content, across a bunch of different things. They're building a podcast network and all kinds of different, things.

This is not part of an ad deal, although I am speaking at the HubSpot Inbound Conference on September 9th in Boston. that is true actually. No, but it's not, it's not part of an ad deal. It's just friends and family. Maybe it'll lead to an ad deal. I hope so.

[00:20:33] Alex: Brian, I, I realize, Troy and I are very much aware that none of the ad that you do are part of an ad deal because we have, we, we keep hearing them, 

[00:20:43] Brian: Did I 

[00:20:43] Alex: seen it.

[00:20:44] Brian: Blue Connic webinar I'm 

doing? 

I usually hate webinars and I'm doing this onic like webinar about generative AI and the infa impact it's gonna have, like on publishing. and everyone should do, we'll leave, we'll leave it in. We'll just, we'll leave a little link in the, in the show notes just in case

[00:21:00] Alex: What, what's, 

[00:21:01] Brian: join.

[00:21:02] Alex: what's a, hate.

[00:21:03] Brian: Anyway. What were you saying about media being a tough business?

[00:21:09] Troy: Speaking of it being a tough business, Jimmy Span Filler, who's become like the pain sponge for digital media. I don't know whether he sort of revels in it or not. but he certainly doesn't get a lot of, love in the, in the press about, his company or his management

[00:21:24] Brian: I can't think of a worse fit for like the, the, like whatever remained of the Deadspin Gawker sort of ethos than Jim. I just cannot think of a worse like marriage, 

[00:21:36] Troy: yeah. 

[00:21:36] Brian: And it's, it's going pretty much as I would expect. 

[00:21:39] Troy: it came up again in our notes because there was a time when measurement of editorial productivity, be it quantity traffic or engagement or maybe, subscription, sort of monetization, power, was a thing that we all aspired to do, right?

Like It was a big part of the kind of next generation quantification of media and digital editorial strategy. And Jim got lambasted for, that this week. Now it may be how he did it as opposed to, just measuring it. But, I thought it was notable that he was getting publicly ridiculed by the union or by the departing editor of Jezebel for, like treating,content, talent.


[00:22:18] end
---

[00:22:18] Troy: Like they were expendable , contributing units of, of editorial function.

Jesus, that was awkward. 

[00:22:24] Brian: did, 

you have page view quotas for, 

[00:22:26] Troy: I mean, we had traffic calls for sure. We had

traffic calls. Yeah. you could break it down, like you might say that Site X was meant to hit 30 million uniques this month, how are you doing against your goal? And then an editor would, sort of, take that goal and probably figure out how to break it down among the team.

I think there's a difference between having a growth goal and, ranking the entire editorial team. But, I'm not, against it. I mean, I think having a, a sort of a leaderboard that shows multiple metrics against 

an editor. You've done that before,

Brian. 

It's 

not 

[00:22:58] Brian: I'm totally against it. A hundred percent against

[00:23:01] Troy: So you've never done it.

[00:23:02] Brian: Nope. Nope. Don't think it works. Think 

it's stupid. 

[00:23:04] Troy: did someone's productivity, 

[00:23:06] Brian: I. 

[00:23:07] Troy: productivity ever factor into 

[00:23:09] Brian: Of course it is. But I know, I, I, I would know who, who is contributing the most to. And because people have different goals and people have different, they bring different things to the table, whether it's driving subscriptions or driving attention, or at least in the business that, that we had, it was about influence.

And that was totally different. If, like, I, for instance, I had someone, he writes for CNN now, he's, he's great. he was really great at doing trending viral stuff like, five ads that failed and all this stuff like this. And it served a total purpose. But the purpose was a very top of the funnel purpose.

And it was very different than someone who, you know, like a Tim Peterson who was going like super narrow and deep into like programmatic ad issues. I was never going to have nearly the number of eyeballs on it. Of course

not. 

[00:23:59] Troy: but that's fine. You can have different goals for different roles.

[00:24:02] Alex: Are you saying, Brian, that, that you wanna run a company, where people just understand, intuitively how well people are doing rather than a assigning a number to them. 

[00:24:12] Brian: kind of, yeah, I mean it's kind of like, like you talk about like with design and like you can ab test like forever, but like ultimately you have to make like a judgment call. And I always found that people hid 

behind numbers 

to not 

make judgment calls. 

[00:24:27] Alex: these types of incentives also create all sort of like the 

wrong behaviors over time. It's like, it's 

[00:24:33] Brian: into,

[00:24:34] Alex: object. 

Your responsibility as a, 

[00:24:37] Troy: what if it didn't? 

[00:24:38] Brian: get. 

[00:24:39] Troy: can't creative people have goals?

[00:24:41] Brian: Okay, let me just finish this thing. So I used to run into, in the men's room, Claudia Sensed, who's now running, built in in Germany, but he was at B bi and Axle Springer brought him over to get bi into shape with a subscription, program. And he had a very simple thing. He said, your stuff either converts into subscriptions or it doesn't convert.

And everyone was held to quote unquote goals, which are quotas just by a different name. And what that led to, what I noticed was I knew when people were short on their goals because pretty soon it became 50 CMOs to watch. And I used to send them emails and were like, half these people are not CMOs.

Because they knew that they would convert into like the last click attribution. these things get gamed and it impacts your product. And if subscriptions are your goal, it's a bundle that you want people subscribing to. Not like, oh, I need access to this one piece of content, and then I'm gonna like churn.

I bet it like through their business into

all 

kinds of 

[00:25:37] Troy: nobody gonna disagree with you guys when you take, when you take the high road on this.

[00:25:41] Brian: Hi road. 

[00:25:42] Troy: and, I well, when you're like,

well, we shouldn't be measuring this. There's lots of ways to do it. No, no. But I think it's

important to present the other side stud that's very gracious of you. so then, you then have to switch over and say, I'm the guy running the business.

I'm stuck in programmatic impression. Hell, my business only functions to the extent that we generate. Page views. And ad impressions may be bad on me. Oh, I should have a subscription business or I should fold it in, or whatever. But that's my reality. So input output. So I've gotta get my hands around how much I spend to create content and how it makes me money because I got some private equity guy breathing down my neck and this is my last, my last go at it, and I gotta make some money here.

So I'm gonna do the only thing I know how to do, which is measure productivity of the editorial team and hold them to account on it, because it's a simple way of managing that resource. Now you might say, well, if you hire, if you created a better environment, you hired better people and people felt like they had agency, they could, manage and we created a nicer place to work.

We could, create a, better editorial environment and all the good things would follow. But you can see why it happens. And,You know, I think pretty much every organization that went through, a kind of ad-driven editorial push had some kind of quantitative goal for their content creators.

So I think Jim got caught on the wrong side of this, and it feels like, oh my god, awful. He is chaining them to the desk,

but like, all right. 

[00:27:20] Alex: Well, I mean, I think like businesses have goals, right? And it is absolutely up to leadership and the executive team to worry about those goals and be held accountable for hitting them. The problem becomes when you start putting numerical kind of targets to people's creative output and it is all creative output.

and then incentivize them to try to, to hit those targets. And I think that's just lazy leadership. It's like saying, okay, generate, million 

in business. 

[00:27:46] Troy: You win. You win. You win the argument. I, I, 

was 

playing a game with you guys. You win. 

[00:27:50] Brian: It's an abdication. of, of actually doing

[00:27:53] Alex: No, it's 

an application. 

[00:27:54] Brian: to me, like I 

think 

[00:27:55] Alex: think it's, 

guys, 

[00:27:56] Troy: No, I think, I 

think you're right. I'm not gonna

disagree with you. You're totally right. 

[00:28:00] Brian: off. I wanna win. 

[00:28:01] Alex: By the way, this has been like a big, I have been having a lot of conversations online. It's pretty fresh to me about, the shifts that Airbnb has done around product management and how, there was some talk about, how they, they, they completely, eradicated that function from the company.

And, the misunderstanding there is that the company moved from being very metrics driven to, being much more about building a hypothesis and trying to do good work. And people have become really lazy with data. Data is so exciting because you can just say, yeah, turn one number into five numbers, give that to five managers, and those managers turn those five numbers into 10 numbers, right?

And then all of a sudden moving a margin by 5% becomes somebody a hundred percent and nobody's doing any good work. And a lot of these businesses, including media, businesses that are dying today are dying because of that mentality.

[00:28:49] Brian: Yeah, I am 100% 

with you, Alex. 

They optimize themselves into like irrelevance. That's the, that's what happens if you just follow the data. I remember having this, I, I'm sorry if I repeated this on this, but I remember having one of these social dashboard companies like come, whatever, it was a, it was a call or something and they showed me that, you can see what's trending on Facebook and then you can quickly assign a story and that will generate like this many pages and you can track it at all.

And I'm like, but doesn't everyone else have the same dashboard? Like, and won't they be doing the same thing? 

And then won't this brand be the same fucking thing out there? Excuse me, I had someone to complain about the F word, but 

[00:29:29] Alex: Yeah. 

[00:29:29] Brian: like the same thing everyone's doing? 

[00:29:31] Troy: it your mom again? Tell her to cool it. Come on.

[00:29:34] Alex: How many people do you think are gonna look at the success of the Barbie movie and say, what we need is more toy based movies, rather than saying, 

rather than seeing what actually worked for that movie. 

[00:29:44] Brian: based brands. 

[00:29:45] Alex: Yeah, and this is like the, the complete disconnect between, oftentimes people making the decisions and the people actually doing the work.

I call them creative people. They could be coders, writers, whatever the fuck, like the hell. think,should call these folks out for it because they're tanking businesses. It's bad for business.


[00:30:04] end
---

[00:30:04] Troy: I think judicious use of the F-bomb is extremely effective,

Alex. 

[00:30:09] Brian: to be judicious.

[00:30:09] Alex: this was judicious though. 

[00:30:11] Brian: It's like the 

[00:30:12] Troy: yeah. 

[00:30:12] Brian: judicious, yeah. It's

a continuum. 

[00:30:15] Troy: and it's, when it's used as a, as a word splitter, that I think you've gone too far, in 

[00:30:21] Alex: Oh 

[00:30:21] Troy: credible 

[00:30:22] Brian: Yeah. 

[00:30:22] Troy: you don't need to

do that. 

[00:30:23] Alex: Yeah. 

it does. English is my second language, so 

a m 

[00:30:28] Brian: fourth language?

[00:30:29] Alex: seven, 



[00:30:31] Alex: languages. Two of them. 

Well, 

[00:30:33] Troy: Pig Latin. what else? 

[00:30:35] Alex: do you speak Saskatch one?

[00:30:36] Troy: JavaScript. I do have a Canadian accent at times. If I'm 

[00:30:40] Alex: Yeah. 

[00:30:41] Troy: I get it. Or if I'm being incredibly dismissive, I get it.

[00:30:44] Alex: Anyway, Troy, it's very unsatisfying that you just gave in. did you just like run outta nicotine or something? 

Or do you 

[00:30:50] Troy: a fresh one. I find No, you guys are right. I I think 

[00:30:52] Brian: So I think this actually goes though to Troy. 

What you were saying, like that talent going, talent, I hate the word talent, but it, it applies going independent to me, it's just like, it's a doom loop, right? So there's so many pressures on the media business that the middle managers are gonna get crunched down, and then it's gonna become more metrics driven and the output's gonna get more bland.

And it's just the doom loop. And then you're gonna lose talent that now has way, has other options. I wouldn't say way more, but like has other options that give them more freedom I wrote about like the independent path. I think more people are gonna take the independent path, either by choice or more likely because they're gonna be forced to take the independent path, like whether you like it or not, like you

[00:31:38] Troy: Well, it's all about force and it, and it's just, it's gonna be in elegant because. Quite frankly, I don't think the world needs, I mean, Don Lemon may be a very sweet guy and all that, but unless he can do standup or,really have a valued and kind of, independent point of view that people really want to hear and wanna be part of, then I, I think it's extremely

difficult for the world to say, we need Don Lemon.

And here's the thing,remember when, I mean, this is maybe a not a terrific example, but remember these sort of aspirations of Yahoo to bring talent into the web, The collision of like Katie

Couric with Yahoo News, and it was just a total Yeah, it was like a total disaster.

They paid her a couple million bucks a year to do some kind of video, like ad

or video program as part 

of 

[00:32:26] Brian: where she was 

like, 

[00:32:27] Troy: Yeah, yeah. She did it in a 

number of verticals. well she did that with someone else, but yeah. Yeah, that was part of the strategy and it didn't go well because we don't need the same kind of, and when with interviewing sort of approach and talent on a website, no one's gonna watch it.

And when Katie Kig ultimately decided that her voice or her talents would be better, kind of manifested in a newsletter strategy, it had a moment of, popularity that's subsequently waned. I don't know why, but, I think it's really, really hard. And I think actually in the shift, Tucker Carlson will do, will do well,

[00:32:59] Brian: I wonder 

[00:33:00] Troy: to be honest with 

you. 

[00:33:01] Alex: I think all of these folks outside of the network that they, they're so broadly aligned that people like lemon are dead in their water, like,

[00:33:09] Brian: Yeah.

[00:33:09] Alex: on his own. He doesn't bring a ton,

[00:33:12] Brian: So I think the type of talent matters. Like the type of talent that I think Don Lemon has is probably, dead in the water because like think about it, like I listen to one of the, like an N P R podcast quote unquote podcast, right? And it's so strange to listen to like N P R podcasts versus like other podcasts ' cause they're so fake and they're, cosplaying conversation.

And

It was interesting to listen to it because their approach is radio and they're trying to cosplay podcasts with, with radio talent and the radio production. And after the show they talk about like the eight different people that were part of the making.

And it just comes across as phony. It reminds me of like, why late night TV is gone. those phony stories, like that kind of talent and that kind of approach just doesn't fit anymore. And so I think that's the problem is it's not that the talent, they're just mismatched to where I think media broadly is going.

[00:34:11] Alex: yeah, probably. I do think does do a pretty good job. Sometimes I think their daily podcast is generally pretty good. but I see what you mean. And one of the people that managed to do it is Conan, right? He managed to move into this independent realm with a very successful podcast. but I think he was always someone that was more interesting individually than a lot of these late night hosts or people like Don Lennon.

and so some people are gonna make it and some aren't. I don't think like the American News media has bred a lot of really deeply interesting people. Like if you actually hear news 

[00:34:44] Brian: Yeah, but, but if you could buy stock in someone, forget about like your personal proclivities. Would it be like Scott Galloway or Chris Cuomo, I would put it on Galloway like every day. you gotta be kidding me. I don't think Chris Cuomo is like made for this, this era.

[00:34:57] Troy: Although he started ranting, this week. Yeah, I mean, in that, choice, I would pick Scott for sure

who commented this week that the left need to take back a reverence, which I thought was kind of cool. And that

the, 

[00:35:09] Alex: that mean?

[00:35:09] Troy: what that means is that, people broadly want to feel okay to engage in sort of off-color commentary and humor because it makes us laugh and they want permission to do it.

And if that becomes the thing that, the kind of broadly that is considered, woke or a part of, the right wing is okay when you kind of make fun and say stupid shit and are irreverent and, liberals are against that, then that's not good for the left. And so I think that's the really the point he was making and that their decision to have Scott sometimes be kind of anti woke or inflammatory and have, Kara kind of swat him down is a strategic decision to create some kind of casting and light conflict kind of brother sister conflict on the show.

So his jokes, you know, his, his goofy humor and his ed jokes and all that shit , and him sometimes kind of like taking the other side is strategic on the podcast. And I think that's Probably true. I think Scott's, that's a little bit of typecasting, but I think it makes for good entertainment 

[00:36:11] Alex: I think that's probably true. I think people, should feel courage to be more irreverent. Scott's not very funny. 

[00:36:17] Brian: Subjective.

[00:36:18] Troy: But it's amazing, you know? I



[00:36:20] Alex: I get a 

similar sense that Elon. 

there's like a, a sense of machismo about being manly and having to be funny.

and Elon and Scott Galloway like desperately trying to be funny 

and I think they're 

[00:36:33] Troy: yeah. I think it's funny when, yeah, you in a bathing suit at Burning Man, like a Speedo. That's funny. and you being like, yeah, your full self, on the podcast. That's great. You should do that. You should do that more.

[00:36:45] Alex: in a, in a 

bathing 

[00:36:46] Brian: in a Speedo, well, we should do this video. I mean, in that case,

[00:36:51] Alex: giving too much away.

[00:36:54] Brian: I think what he's saying is like, nobody likes wet blankets and like we got into this, like safety is, and like wet blanket sort of The Atlantic has finally moved away from that. it's kind of like, I joke about the New York Times, war on Summer. I mean it's like, gimme a break. It's summer.

Like why are you ke keep going on and on about how awful it is to travel somewhere or lines or how bugs are terrible or there's risk out there and stuff. Like at some point it just becomes too much. And I think that's probably, I didn't hear his entire ramp, but that's, probably what he's getting at.

And like you need to. You need to be likable. And I think in, in media these days, I don't know if it's likable. I say it's relatable. I think when you're moving from like institutional affinity to human affinity and human affinity powers in a lot of institutional affinity these days, you have to be relatable to people.

There's no more of this top down stuff where it's like, you need to be scared of this. You need to be scared of this. This person's terrible. These people are saying bad things. This is not okay. And that gets like really that grinds, I think that grinds a lot of people down and I can see that as, a very valid point me.

[00:38:01] Troy: put Brian. 

[00:38:02] Brian: voting for DeSantis though.

[00:38:05] Alex: Yeah, 

[00:38:06] Troy: All right, well that's good 

discussion. 

[00:38:08] Brian: He's too goofy to be president. Beyond the other things.

[00:38:11] Troy: Alex, you got any

[00:38:12] Brian: Trump is funny, by the way. Do you 

think Trump is funny?

[00:38:14] Troy: Yeah, he's funny.

[00:38:15] Brian: Okay. 

[00:38:15] Alex: Yeah, he is funny. 

He's fucking hilarious. 

[00:38:18] Brian: on that guy's. Funny.

[00:38:19] Alex: But you know, he's funny. He's funny. I don't know. I, there was a kid at school in my school that was like three years older than everyone else because, behind. He was just a brute and he was so funny, and it was hard to see how much of it was on purpose. A lot of it wasn't.

He was just like a disaster to watch and it was just the most entertaining thing. and I feel like Trump gives out that same energy, 

[00:38:43] Troy: course. 

[00:38:44] Alex: you know, he's in power. 

[00:38:45] Troy: his label 

[00:38:45] Brian: Yeah. 

[00:38:46] Troy: are, are funny, like low energy Jeb. That's 

[00:38:48] Brian: That's funny. 

Like, did you see this? Did we talk about Bobby Altoff? 

[00:38:52] Alex: Yeah. 

[00:38:52] Troy: that? 

[00:38:53] Brian: Like She, interviewed. Drake, like 

[00:38:55] Alex: She, yeah, she interviewed. 

[00:38:56] Brian: Drake, 

[00:38:56] Alex: yeah. 

[00:38:59] Brian: but she's like, she's funny 'cause you don't know if this is like, if this is real or is this not? Is this like, it's very strange. And there needs to be more of that out there. That's my hope for

media. 

[00:39:11] Alex: very dead bad. Like I think the kids are right, man. I think everybody's like, kind of wrapping themselves up, like everyone's too afraid to say anything, but people are, are fine. Just I think what sometimes we get this confused with is like at Sam Harris had a great little, like 13 minute podcast where he talks about being an asshole and the fact is that Trump is an asshole.

And, even when called out as that both him and his fans like brush it off because that's what they like about him. And my worry would be, sometimes people read into things that people say like, what, Scott Galloway will say is like, well, it's our turn to be assholes. the same way people read the Steve Jobs biography and said, okay, to be successful I need to be an asshole.

I think you can be irreverent and you can say what you mean to say without being an asshole.

[00:39:56] Troy: It's like that guy, Caleb, the guy from Barstool , Caleb Presley,

[00:39:59] Alex: mm-hmm.

[00:40:00] Troy: you know who I'm talking about, the interviewer?

[00:40:01] Brian: No, 

[00:40:02] Troy: No. he was an ex quarterback. He has a mustache, kind of a mullet. Hilarious, hilarious kind of deadpan interviews. He did a great one with Post Malone, where he also has a sidekick that doesn't say anything.

This kind of fat guy who, when Post Malone came on, had written on his face all over his face with a marker and just sat there like pretending he was tattooed up. Like Post Malone, I mean you should watch

[00:40:24] Brian: I gotta check it all out. I don't think you're allowed to 

say fact guy though, just on the subject. No. 'cause I, I post, I posted some screenshot on Instagram of I, I'm in this like food sort of thing and, and there's a Italian chef. He's like, he's a pretty big guy. and he was like, meatballs are a language.

And I took a screenshot and I was like, this guy's fluent. And I got like a DMM from someone who's like, I'm not offended, but I think you should delete this. I was like, gimme a break. I was like, if I get canceled over making a joke about some guy saying like, meatballs are a language. Like I'll go 

down 

like happily. 

[00:41:01] Troy: I did barely more than that and got canceled, so there you go.

[00:41:04] Brian: this is the independent path. I am not gonna, I'm not gonna delete the meatball. 

tweet. Sorry everyone. 

[00:41:11] Troy: All right. Well,

great to see you guys as the summer rolls on. 

[00:41:14] Brian: do we have a, do we have a good product? 

[00:41:16] Troy: We do, and it, it's not like water or anything, 




[00:41:19] good product
---

[00:41:21] Troy: this is in praise of the uniform and. What I've been noticing is, and I know Alex is a fan of this 'cause he told me as much, but in the summer, and a little bit of this is an homage to my father, I like to wear sort of short, short op corduroy shorts, like board shorts 

and, I have them in every color 

I can. 

[00:41:42] Brian: Wow.

These, these kind, Oh yeah. 

[00:41:44] Troy: and they're terrific. 

[00:41:45] Brian: not quite magnums. They're at least discreet.

[00:41:48] Troy: Yeah. So you wear these with, I and I have basically every color of la ca shirt available, and so I can mix and match. I can dress like a, like an eggplant all purple. I can go out more green. I can mix, with contrasting colors. And so I love the uniform.

Don't have to think. Know what I'm gonna wear. Can I stock the closet appropriately? so my good product this week is, is really the, this quarter, this particular corduroy board shirt op doesn't make them anymore. These are made by a company called Hammies and they're amazing. but it's really about the uniform.

Playing with the uniform as a kind of branded personal expression.

[00:42:24] Brian: Hmm. 

[00:42:24] Troy: That's like you wearing all black, Alex, you wearing your like, I don't know, whatever Arc, eRx outfit or whatever you wear, the uh,it's not arc.


[00:42:31] end
---

[00:42:31] Alex: I was listening to the Rick Rubin, book because I don't read. he spoke about, simplifying your life. And that a lot of artists like this idea of the uniform and even Einstein, wore the same gray suit. and I think it was Eric sat or somebody like that, who had like an outfit for each day of the week.

And it got me thinking, it's like every time you can remove yourself some decision, but then still feel like you're looking good, you're kind of, you're, you're winning, that type of structure is important.

although some people are very good at being 

[00:43:01] Brian: Holmes did that. 

[00:43:02] Alex: She did. She just copied jobs.

Right.

[00:43:05] Brian: she had to do the frauding, so she needed to like, Put aside some things.

[00:43:09] Alex: find people who, who are really good at building outfits on the fly who always look like, so, the design team at Airbnb were like some of the best dressed people I've ever met. Everybody dressed so well and everybody had so many different outfits and systems and stuff like that. And I always felt like a little underwhelmed by my ability to do that.

So I think like, just simplifying and getting just very monotone. like, it's like the thing, like if you wanna get compliments, wear a suit, you know, you get, it's the easiest thing to put on, right? Like, it's that it's, I don't know if you watch the bear, but he goes like, I wear suits now.

and there's a transition from, from that character cousin, from a deadbeat into somebody who's like, pretty cool. and that looks good. That's a uniform. I'm all for it, I always try to be more creative in my life and I, I don't think I'm good at it yet, 

[00:43:53] Brian: Okay, well, there's, 

there's time. There's time. so 

this was good. 

[00:43:58] Troy: I'm glad you came back, 

Brian. It's real 

nice to see you. 

[00:44:01] Brian: Next week from Belgrade.

[00:44:02] Alex: Wow. Long trip. 

[00:44:05] Brian: Yeah. No, it's gonna be a month. we're leaving. We're going, come back at the end of the month it's been great. really, like Croatia, always liked Serbia. my good product from here, if I could to say, is Pleva, which is a, this potato and Swiss char. It's a very Dalmatian Istrian coast.

I don't think it's a Dalmatian dish. 

[00:44:22] Troy: Dalmatian. Like the dog.

[00:44:24] Brian: well, the Dian Coast. 

[00:44:25] Alex: I. 

[00:44:28] Brian: No, it's not spotted. It's not. I mean, that's just like the Dalmatian coast. I think it's, I don't know if it's ean. There's Ria, which is north, and then Dalmatia, which is south. but it's an amazing, you get it with every single, fish dish.

And so I was obsessed with making it. The first one was not so good, 

but I nailed the blade. 

[00:44:43] Troy: were eating, dog, and I'm

glad to hear you weren't 

[00:44:45] Brian: dog. I'm eating fish and, 


[00:44:48] outro
---

[00:44:49] Troy: Alex, you have an echo 

and it's bugging the shit outta me.

[00:44:51] Brian: The tables have turned.

[00:44:53] Troy: yeah, 

Mr. Audio has an echo.

[00:44:56] Brian: you do. 

[00:44:56] Troy: the fuck?

why do you have an echo? Alex, Where's your microphone, Alex?

[00:45:00] Alex: Oh, it's at home.

[00:45:01] Brian: Yeah. 

You told me to like travel with this thing. 

[00:45:03] Troy: Oops. 

Dog ate my homework. 

[00:45:04] Alex: yeah. 

[00:45:05] Brian: traveled with 

[00:45:06] Troy: Yeah. think you can buy a portable mic and headphones. Why are you such a fucking bag of

shit? 

[00:45:12] Alex: every, week this thing gets published with this garbage.

[00:45:15] Troy: We all 

have our 

crosses to bear. I love it.

[00:45:17] Brian: yeah. 

all right, that's it.

[00:45:19] Troy: see you.

[00:45:19] Brian: Bye.

[00:45:20] Alex: 

