PvA S3E144
===


[00:00:00] Open
---

​

[00:00:01] Brian: Anonymous Banker is everywhere. Why? Like, when did this happen? 

[00:00:05] Troy: he's like a fun guy.

[00:00:07] Alex: like a fun guy

[00:00:08] Troy: He's a

fun guy. 


[00:00:10] Intro
---

​

[00:00:32] Brian: did you catch ab on, arrival Podcast this week?

[00:00:37] Troy: Are you talking about the grill room one?

[00:00:38] Brian: Yes. The, I didn't wanna mention it 'cause that's promoting another podcast, but yes. Dylan

[00:00:43] Alex: isn't it? Well, Dylan had, he, it's weird. I think Dylan's gonna be my rival.

[00:00:47] Brian: he, show up as anonymous banker?

He's taking his, the, he was like Jeff Goldblum, like, what was the movie where he became a bug?

[00:00:57] Troy: the fly. 

[00:00:58] Brian: Yeah. Where he's like, escaped the lab.

I don't even know if that was in the plot, but like AB has escaped the lab.

[00:01:04] Troy: Right. And then Dylan sort of positioned it as if he was taking away our like, you know, crown jewels, you know, like competing in the media podcast



[00:01:16] Alex: When we all know it's me, I'm the get,

[00:01:19] Brian: Weirdly, he kept, he, he referenced both me and Troy. I think it was Troy first, then me, but I, I don't remember. But then there was some Alex erasure there. So I don't know. There's, there's a lot, there's a lot of dynamics

[00:01:30] Alex: I'm also often mentioned as the, the other guy

[00:01:33] Brian: Well, I know, I think he sees you as the rival because you, you know, had all the makings of the sort of 2D from facts of life, like role of like, you know, you're a bit of a peripheral character, and then you come a main character and then you get your own show.

[00:01:49] Troy: Love it.

[00:01:50] Alex: I, I, I, I, I, I, I want my young Sheldon show.

[00:01:53] Brian: just roller skate on in. Anyway, it was a good, it was a good podcast. I, I recommend people listen to it if they want, if they want more. baby. 

[00:02:01] Troy: but one thing I was wondering as I, listened to a podcast yesterday is, I wonder why I like, why I listen to podcasts that I don't like, podcasters that I don't like. And what it says about what we should do.

[00:02:15] Brian: It is hate listening.

[00:02:16] Troy: I know, 

but 

it's like 

[00:02:18] Brian: have hate 

listeners. You don't think we have hate listeners? Like we have hate listeners?

[00:02:22] Alex: I'm sure we do. I think we all bring our own little contingent.

[00:02:26] Troy: it's 

[00:02:26] Brian: I don't. I I don't. ignite

strong, strong

[00:02:28] Troy: don't know. I've just developed such disdain for Scott and Kara, but I do listen to the podcast.

[00:02:33] Brian: Oh, that's a classic hate listen. Classic.

all in has become a hate listen for I mean, there's, there's, there's sort of hate listens that I just can't listen to. So I just hate them. I don't listen to them like, what's his knuckle along the long lex? I can't listen to Lex anymore. It's over.

[00:02:49] Alex: No 

[00:02:49] Brian: he's tough. He's a tough listen.

[00:02:51] Alex: I don't have any hate listeners anymore. Life's too short, man, and there are too way too many good podcasts. I, I, I actually didn't hate Karen and Scott like you did, but I think you brought that to me. You made me stop listening to them, and then I noticed, you know what?

I don't miss them.

[00:03:06] Troy: Oh,

their own barrel. 

[00:03:07] Brian: Not to be geography, but like that's, that's a very west coast 

[00:03:12] Troy: There's borderline hate listens, like, you know, I just getting old and cranky and less liberal all the time. So like Neli Patel,

anybody that has a sort of undercurrent of massive kind of liberal, bias, I, I get irritated by.

[00:03:25] Brian: I've been spending the last few months immersed in the manosphere. I've just decided to go all in to try to understand it. 'cause I do think it's important. I think a lot of the changes of the media ecosystem really did begin

[00:03:39] Troy: You know, a lot of people fall into the manosphere then they, it's not just the manosphere by the way, you're

talking about these sort of political extremist

[00:03:46] Brian: Yes. Well, I wouldn't call them extremists.

They're just alternative use, 

[00:03:49] Troy: Correct. But you sometimes you fall in, you don't come out

[00:03:52] Brian: No, I know. That's the, that's 

[00:03:53] Troy: like it's happened to loved ones.

[00:03:55] Brian: Has it? I'm worried about it. 'cause I'm listening to enough of them and I mean, you know, beyond like just Joe Rogan. I'm in, I'm in Steve Manning's,

[00:04:04] Troy: No. We all have like a brother that was like into yoga and progressive politics and now is a rightwing crank.

[00:04:10] Brian: Yeah.

I'm a little worried about it. But what the thing that I am like sort of concerned about is, as I get deeper into this, is there's truly a parallel reality that's happening right now. Like the, the Epstein story as it played out among like. Glenn Greenwald, Steve Bannon, Tucker Carlson, et cetera. completely different than what was going on in quote unquote mainstream media or even just, you know, general, discussion.

Same thing happening with this Obama as like, you know, being guilty of treason. I mean, like, it's, it's kind of like nuts to listen to this parallel reality and then go back to reading, I don't know, the New York Times or other place, and you're like, this is completely different. It's like there are groups of people now in this country who have completely different realities that I don't think I fully appreciated just how big the divide is, and it's a reality divide.

[00:05:12] Troy: Right. Can you characterize the two camps?

[00:05:15] Brian: Well, I would say the two camps are. I think it's beyond progressive and conservative because like, you know, Glenn Greenwell cuts into, it's, it's mostly around a conspiratorial sense that I think is really easy to fall into now. And I'm not sure exactly why, like this is, I haven't seen edington yet, but I think it's, from everything I read, it's very much a part of that, that movie, which itself is, is, is fairly divisive and, there's a hidden hand, a hidden agenda.

I mean, this is what fuels X and it is, it is really captivating, I'll be honest with you. 

[00:05:58] Troy: The nice thing about that movie is it's, you know, at the risk of being confusing is sort of non-denominational, right? Like you have the liberal opportunist in the existing mayor, you have the sort of maga crank in the sheriff. and then You, you, do have this undercurrent of like the, it kind of rendered in a, in a, in a really kind of believable way of the perver, the perversion of social media in terms of how we connect our, our kind of messaging and our, you know, digital persona from, from what kind of is going on in the real world.

you should see it by, you should see it by the way, and, and, and the mo the movie's a little long, but it, it feels like a little bit like a Cohen Brothers movie, and it, it gathers a lot of momentum.

[00:06:44] Alex: Like any movie over like an hour and 45 minutes has been banned in my house. But I'll I'll try to, to, to, to, to grab it for the 

[00:06:51] Brian: Just get it summarized

get it summarized and, and explained to you by

by Snoop Dogg. 

[00:06:56] Alex: yeah. The thing, the thing is, I mean, you know, like it's been researched, right? Conspiracy theories have been happening forever. It's when people, like people feel powerless.

They want to feel like they have knowledge that other people don't have that explains the world for them, et cetera. you know, CO and COVID was definitely like one of those points that created a lot of like, conspiracy movements and conspiracy factions. But those Epstein things like feel like they're like a whole, it's a whole new wave that I'm noticing is moving into is reshifting, the landscape a little bit.

Not only by having kind of like. Ex pro maga thing shift away, right? Like Tucker Carlson. and, and then, even folks like Coffee zilla, coffee zilla, you know, the guy that was like doing all those like crypto scam coverage on YouTube is now like a full on 24 7 Epstein fouls. And, uh, to, to the point where like, you know, I can understand, I can understand how the Epstein file is going to bring a whole new audience into the conspiracy world.

You know, like one that is like probably anti maga, anti-Trump that is not going to move into this new faction. and

[00:08:04] Troy: is the conspiracy gateway drug.

[00:08:07] Alex: oh, a hundred percent. and, and it's never, I mean, what they did with it, how they handled it, how the administration handled it, if they wanted to make it stop, it'll, it'll never stop.

Now this is JFK Moon Landing Pandemic. This is like, this is nine 

[00:08:23] Brian: Nine 11 is back, by the way.

Nine 11 is back. 

[00:08:25] Alex: Um,

and the thing is, whenever something like that comes up, I think it also gives people an opportunity to go, were these other things that I thought were true also lies, you know, like it, and so I think it's, it is fascinating to watch.

Don't fall into it. I mean, you know, 

[00:08:41] Brian: I know Ab Ab a offered 

me a ZI at dinner and I was like, no, I, I don't want to get, like, I don't

[00:08:46] Alex: kind of fit the demographic, right? you know, two middle-aged white men in a failing, failing,industry.

[00:08:54] Brian: gonna get to the failing 

[00:08:55] Troy: Well the, you know, one other thing on the movie Edington is that, you know, it's really

[00:09:00] Alex: Troy just wants a movie, podcast. Okay, 

[00:09:02] Troy: no, it's the real first critical look at our reaction to COVID and the kind of hysteria around it. And there's these, these two funny characters in a moment in the movie where everybody in the theater breaks up laughing.

And this, it's Brian and Sarah. She's kind of the personification of like performative allyship and white fragility. Like that's her character and he bones up to try to impress her to, to,

get with her.

[00:09:29] Brian: Wait, there's a Brian character. 

[00:09:31] Troy: yeah, I think his name in the movie I think is Brent. Anyway, the, he's sitting at the table, then he's adopted this kind of performative stance and he's going on about native lands and BLM and stuff.

And the father, looks at him and says. What, what, what's wrong with you? Are you retarded? And the whole movie theater's, like, finally we ha we have this collective permission to indulge in the term. And, and then he's like, you are white. You know? and it, it's, it's, it's a moment of, of levity as we, we, we look back to how crazy those times

[00:10:05] Alex: I haven't seen the movie, but, I think there's a lot of critique of how we handled it. I think we should also remember how scared everyone was. I think a lot of this stuff started with being people, being deeply scared and there was a good expose that, I don't remember, I don't have a link on Rogan showing.

Before he kind of became conspiracy theories to how scared and how serious he was taking it. And, and I think a lot of people that fear kind of broke them a little bit and we forget that, right? Like, we forget that we didn't know if we had to wrap ourselves up in spacesuits to go buy carrots. Like I, and nobody knew.

And I'm 

[00:10:39] Brian: Although I'm very glad, you know, I only, I disinfected groceries one time and I just, I did the mental calculus and just having enough self-awareness, I was like, you know what, if this is gonna take me out, this is gonna take me out because I'm not gonna disinfect the groceries, each time I get them. So that was

a turning point. That was a turning point for me.

[00:10:59] Alex: I did it. But I'm, I'm, I'm a little bit new neurotic.

[00:11:03] Brian: I remember they would go to like, order a pizza and they would put it in my trunk, trunk pizza. anyway, one, one quick note on that, 'cause Troy and I were discussing this, it is very interesting that the pandemic was such a massive part of everyone's life. A globally changed everyone's life for, you know, ultimately for a couple of years. And. Just like the Spanish flu, it's never been reflected in like art and culture. It never gets, this is unique in that we have not had a lot of programming of any kind that reflect on this momentous change. Instead, all the discussion has just been on like civil liberties and content moderation. It's almost as if nobody, if like 7 million people didn't die, first

[00:11:48] Alex: I think it's because, I think it's because once it all was over, like we all wanted to stop talking about it. I there, there was a fair amount of art, pandemic art that was created during the pandemic, including some, some great episodes from TV shows. that were, you know, created under the constraints. I think there should be kind 

[00:12:05] Brian: but wait, they didn't show the actual pandemic. People were not wearing masks. It's the same way in in movies like you never in tv you never see people sitting on their

[00:12:14] Alex: sure. I think there, I think we needed, I think we need some space, because I think once it was done, like the last thing we wanted to talk about is everybody just wanted to go into a crowded bar and share a, you know, fries off a plate.

[00:12:27] Brian: But the Spanish flu, it never got, it never got addressed. And also like the great famine, another one that got like memory hold, in Ireland for a long time.

so anyway, I wanna, I wanna get onto like, as, as, Alex sort of flicked at, you know, the, the declining doomed industry, et cetera. Just a couple of, quick notes beyond that. I think that, one note that we never address status, which is a, a great publication. I know Troy might not like Oliver, but I like, I, I like status from Oliver, Darcy,

[00:12:57] Troy: Uh, he's become less whiny since he

[00:12:59] Brian: Yes. Yeah. Because the market sort of corrects for that. But when you're like coed in a big media company, you don't, you're a little bit protected from the market and you start to, you have to respond to signals.

He had a, he had a piece, the other, just a very, in, in passing,

[00:13:13] Alex: it's another Substack. Sorry, I, I I, 

[00:13:15] Brian: It's, it's, 

[00:13:16] Alex: I, I thought it was a 

It's not a substack, it's on beehive. substack on beehive. Great.

[00:13:21] Brian: it's not a substack, it's a beehive. it's a newsletter.

And I know that's actually the, that's, that's an advantage.

[00:13:29] Alex: they should really advertise and like build that brand up because, Substack is, 

[00:13:35] Brian: yeah, I know. There's, there's, there's, there's, you know, there's good and bad of being synonymous with that. But, they had a, he had a little like, note that Neil Vogel was a finalist to be the Peloton, CEO earlier this year. I, I got, I got a couple 

[00:13:47] Troy: I don't believe it. I don't believe it for a

[00:13:49] Alex: I believe it a hundred percent. I think it's the perfect profile. I think if you are a CEO of a media, CEO of the pod. CO of a media company becoming the CEO of a bicycle that goes nowhere is a perfect, it's a perfect, uh, 

[00:14:02] Brian: Jesus, 

[00:14:03] Troy: That's the kinda shot you're gonna take. Neil, the

great Neil Gel. think you made that joke last week, 

Alex. It wasn't good then and it's not good now.

[00:14:11] Alex: I, you laughed.

[00:14:12] Troy: Ha

[00:14:12] Brian: Neil has emerged as, as I think, you know, one of, of this sort of, you know, savviest of, of, and you can say what you want about the, the consideration set, media CEOs in dealing with all of the challenges that, that have been thrown at this industry and this industry has created for itself over the years.

So, hope Neil, if you're listening, hope, hope you stay in the media industry and don't ride off to, the bicycle industry. one other

note is I think, wired is actually doing some kind of interesting work. This is something that you had noted, Katie Drummond took over there

and. 

[00:14:47] Troy: She it. They're doing great.

[00:14:48] Brian: She found a lane and you know, the, the, it was really with Doge, you know, they, they saw this massive opportunity and at first I would've said, well, that's dumb.

Why do you wanna all everyone, everything has to become politics. But they covered the hell out of this. And, you know, as media, and we're gonna get into this about they look for a way out. It's not gonna be easy to pull off and it's not gonna be right for a lot of 

[00:15:10] Troy: You know, Brian, we might need to fact check this, but I believe she went to my alma mater. She's Canadian and she

[00:15:15] Brian: oh really? Another secret. Canadian of media.

[00:15:18] Troy: Yeah.

[00:15:19] Alex: yeah,

[00:15:19] Brian: everywhere. Or at least they used to be.



[00:15:21] Troy: Do you remember the early days? I used to lick the cover of Wired. I loved it so much.

[00:15:26] Brian: well, it had that tactile feel, 

[00:15:28] Alex: I think you love the, the chemicals they used to pray the spray 

[00:15:31] Troy: Yeah. Louis Risotto and Jane Metcalf launched it in 93.

Hotwired in 94, where the first banner was born. Our friend Jonathan Nelson, played a role in that

used to also 

[00:15:41] Brian: people claim to have 

[00:15:42] Troy: well, I think he was actually there. And I remember the building 'cause organic was co-located in the

[00:15:48] Brian: Oh, mode Media claims that they did 

[00:15:50] Troy: Fun fact, Jonathan Nelson was also Alex's landlord.

[00:15:54] Brian: they, they sold it to Conde in 98 for $90 million without the digital arm of it that they subsequently, that, that Lycos of all people owned.

[00:16:04] Troy: And then they were reunited after Conde paid Lycos, $25 million. So today the company I looked, I, I was able to get some data on it. It's probably 35 to 40 million in revenue and about a hundred employees. And,

they still have a lot of print subs, like 500,000 print

[00:16:22] Brian: But on Impact, they're, they're kind of there. Like, I think they're doing, they, they, they were a little bit lost for, for, for many years. I think after,Nick Thompson left wire, they were a little bit lost. 

[00:16:33] Troy: You know, Mr. Brian, there's a, there's an interesting

value proposition 

[00:16:37] Brian: this is like my barber would like 

[00:16:39] Troy: Yeah. Here's the thing. I think it's two bucks a month. Okay. And what they've done recently is a subscriber benefit is stacked up newsletters from people like Steven Levy. And so you get like five, you know, newsletters a week

wired? is two bucks a 

yeah. And it's two bucks a month for the digital thing or like 20 or 30 bucks a year.

[00:17:01] Alex: What about the print one?

[00:17:03] Troy: just go under subscribe in the top right hand corner, Alex, and you can answer that

[00:17:08] Alex: Uh, that's, yeah, that's true.

[00:17:09] Troy: top right. There we

[00:17:10] Brian: I mean, to keep that rate base up, you can get it for free.

[00:17:13] Troy: I think it's like maybe four or five bucks a month. If you did, you hit it.

[00:17:18] Alex: Oh, print and digital. Here we go. Three bucks a month.

[00:17:21] Brian: Alex is stroking his beard, doing the math here, and I don't think it's Okay. My 

[00:17:25] Alex: No, no. I, I, I was sorry. I was just going to say like, I am, I'm in real time here as a value proposition. if you add a couple of bucks and get the print magazine for something, like Wired, I think it's be, I think, print can be a great value prop to your digital subscription if 

it's done Right. 

for something like Wired, right?

For something like Wired, which feels like a coffee table book that you refresh every, every month or something like that.

[00:17:49] Troy: It's six issues. But here's the thing, Brian, most Substack, like if you subscribe to Casey Newton's platform or whatever, like 10 bucks a month,

this is five newsletters. It's like webinars, a AMAs, stuff like that, and it's two, two bucks a month.

[00:18:08] Brian: Yeah.

[00:18:08] Alex: We should talk about this at some point, but my Patreon, substack fucking, you know, premium podcast subscription on, on Apple podcasts, you know, my, that, that universe of things that I'm paying for individual podcasts is becoming like, really expensive. The amount of content I get com for it compared to like what I pay for Netflix, or what I pay for my Audible subscription is, is like terribly bad value.

I, and I think we're gonna, lots of folks are gonna reach that point. You pay two to five bucks, you know, to individuals everywhere it starts adding up.

[00:18:45] Troy: Well, this is a, this is a demonstration of why aggregating, you know, voices around a brand and, you know, having a digital print and sort of activa activation platform at three bucks a month is, is, actually like a materially better value prop than ping an individual contributor 10 bucks.

[00:19:04] Brian: Yeah. I

mean, that's the basic bet of puck, right? I mean, they're aggregating like a bunch of sub stackers. At the end of the day, people who could be sub stackers in the world or have a beehive and instead are part of, of, of a bundle. Which is

a KAA publication.

and and you know,

it is the opportunity for Substack.

I mean, they've dragged their feet and maybe it's just timing. There has to be a Substack one, substack plus Substack Max Pro, whatever you want to call it, that allows some kind of bundle.

[00:19:31] Alex: yeah. I think Ben Thompson with the Eckery thing, did that pretty well. Like, I don't feel like I'm overpaying for it. Even, even, you know, I get a, I get a 

[00:19:41] Brian: Eh, he's got a lot of random stuff in that bundle though. I don't want any of it.

[00:19:44] Alex: You know what? I don't understand. I mean, let me just, can I rant a little bit? He, he has, he has his, he has his 

[00:19:50] Troy: Oh yeah. We're actually working on hate listens, so go ahead.

[00:19:54] Alex: Yeah, so he has, he has his newsletter as a podcast, right. where he, he, it just like, he has his newsletter and he reads it out as a podcast and it's kind of well produced. And he, he reads it out and he has a second person who I think is his assistant, read out the quotes, et cetera. But as he's reading out his newsletter, he is like, see diagram, see picture?

I'm like, I

[00:20:14] Brian: like that's on 

[00:20:15] Alex: I can't see it. I know you're, I know you're reading verbatim, but just tell me like there's a diagram 

[00:20:20] Brian: mean, look, you gotta be authentic these days. Everyone says it. And sometimes that au authenticity manifests in very strange ways, and I think that's one of them.

[00:20:30] Alex: all right. Well,

[00:20:31] Brian: Let's talk about the demise of let's, let's talk about the 

[00:20:34] Troy: I mean, the cute part. So hold it. The Stree bundle is worth something. The podcast is valuable. He's super smart. He's a little snake tail leader. He references himself constantly,

which is a bit 

of a co, it's, it's a quirk.

but he, he's a quality analyst, so

[00:20:52] Alex: he is, he's a great, 

[00:20:53] Brian: Well,

so just to sort of tie it back, I think this is all on the connecting the dots continuum, right? You have conspiracy theories and then you have Ben Thompson and Sheek and all of its clones on the other side. And all of it is trying to connect dots. And he's trying to connect the dots in, you know, the business and technology and like the conspiracy theories are trying to connect dots that maybe don't connect, when it comes to politics and how the world is run.

So I think it's just a testament to how confused, this time we are living in is right now. Let's talk about the demise of media companies, but more importantly, like how you structure them to, to get to some kind of, version of sustainability. 

[00:21:31] Troy: You know, I could kick this off, Brian, with a little model that I just made up.

[00:21:35] Brian: Oh, did you, I'd love that. Is there sketches?

[00:21:39] Troy: Well let's see if it works. Maybe we can, we can test it here a bit. But now that time has passed since the kind of old. Digital media model of platform distribution and scale showed, you know, fundamental weaknesses with the distribution dependency and making content, you know, for platforms. And then the degradation and ad experience brought up by, by, by terrible ads and misaligned incentives, we can start to look at what's next. And I, I sort of think that there's maybe three buckets of media that work now or, or that will emerge. It's not that they work, it's more like just ways of thinking about it.

And the one is reported media and it's. A flywheel that sustains when, you know, you have that scale and commitment to human based fact gathering, sense making, you know, fact checking reporting and the like, and obviously sensibly focused on topics that allow you to make money and you serve the consumer well and are largely driven by the, the, the, the, value proposition of a subscription. And you found a way to get enough scale to make that little system work. you know, obviously there's, you know, the big, the big examples that everybody uses, which are New York Times and Wall Street Journal, you know that the Atlantic has their own little liberal spin on it that got momentum with, the money from a, you know, a ben, a deep pocketed benefactor in, in lowering Powell, Lauren Powell Jobs Wired, is kind of trying to carve out territory here and kind of doing an okay job. You know, maybe Vanity Fair, this is the trouble with it. It sits on the precipice. It's not quite, kind of scaled enough to be meaningful.

And then you have the sort of Forbes fortune time that deliver kind of a veneer of news, but not enough to garner

[00:23:29] Brian: Those are brands. Those are brands.

[00:23:31] Troy: Instead, they trade brand equity for ad dollars and it's, it's a tenuous position. So anyway, you have this reported bucket and, and, you know, reporting is useful and doesn't get eaten by the machines. Then you have sort of impresario media and they le you know, leveraging the power of, of personality and point of view to carve out mindshare in like a noisy, you know, what you

[00:23:54] Alex: What did you call it? Impresario Media.

[00:23:56] Troy: Impresario media, right? They win on platforms, audio and video drives the business, more ads than subs. they find the, you know, the, the, the best find ways to spread the goodness of a human to a media brand, right?

So Barry becomes the free press. Dave becomes Barstool Mr. Beast is Beast Media and, and there's a lot of newsletter people on the small, sort of fragmented side in this bucket. And then you have this sort of agentic media, and it's, you know, I mean, we're just starting to see what the outlines of this are.

This is obviously the biggest threat to people that grew up in the scale era, but you know, what? Much of what used to function as ad carrying media will be aggregated and delivered in these sort of infinitely personalized bundles via AI interfaces. And, and the interesting thing here, I think is that UGC finds life. As AI sweeps it up and makes the interface better. Right. And then you have, it's, it's, it's kind of early to tell if content creators can create a business feeding that beast. I doubt they can maybe data owners, people, in other words, people that have really unique content or data, that's up to the minute or coveted or whatever, can find some blood in that vein. But most of the stuff in that category of Agentic media, all the value attributes to the, to the aggregator and everything else is compressed and commoditized.

But if it's, if it's, I mean, anything that's non evergreen and to the minute is going to do much better. Right. 

yeah, so you got reported impresario and agentic and

that's kind of 

[00:25:27] Alex: down.

[00:25:28] Brian: the agen is basically just replacing SEO, 

[00:25:31] Troy: uhhuh. 

[00:25:32] Brian: right? I mean, like you were creating content for, for, you know, SEO before every publication was doing this, some. That was basically all they did. So I would just guess that they would then pivot to being, instead of S-E-O-G-E-O, which 

[00:25:49] Troy: Right. Except it's way harder to ob to, to, to, to take value from that

[00:25:53] Brian: Yeah, 

[00:25:54] Alex: I don't think the geo thing is gonna, is gonna, is gonna lift off. I, I was, I've been, I've been 

[00:25:59] Brian: Wait, 

why wait, wait. Why? Why wait, why?

[00:26:01] Alex: because I don't think, I don't think there's a, I don't think that there's a ton of money to be made, and I don't think that Google itself is particularly,incentivized to, to give up some of its revenue to, you know, to get people to it.

It, the, the, the transaction isn't the same as, isn't the same as this. It was with websites where with websites you could say, look, you know, you're building this website where you're trying to attract traffic. You're trying to bring people onto your website. SEO is a known evil that you need to do. It makes the websites worse for everyone potentially, but it kind of feeds both the bots and the people.

when you're saying like, we're just gonna feed the bots. and we're gonna build stuff to feed into Google unless you're building something that is,where you have some sort of deal with Google or you have some sort of CloudFlare paper crawl thing where you're making transactions over that, that I, I don't think it, I don't think it works in the same way.

It doesn't translate like that. And, and, and, and, and

[00:26:58] Troy: I also think, Alex, that a lot of it is hijacked because stuff that wasn't useful before, which is people going off on Reddit actually becomes useful now.

[00:27:06] Alex: Well, yeah, because, because I, a lot of this in like, we, we, we talked about the permeability of, of content, right? And a lot of the content, even stuff that is your own, if it has a, a little bit of a lifespan, if it's not up to the minute, gets, gets absorbed and rehashed on the internet across all, all different platform.

Any AI company just needs to sign a deal with Reddit. And it will have up to the minute 

[00:27:29] Brian: Yeah, but like honestly, like the early data just shows that. Like MuckRack did a study this week that the citations on these generative ai answer engines are basically from mainstream media. Like the, all of the weight of LE of the PR industry is going to, trying to figure out how to get quote unquote earned media.

And it's always, it seems like the best path to that is not through individuals. It's through guess, guess what? Traditional media trade publications, niche media, and that's what, so that is the type of media that AI is citing. Now, maybe they will end up citing it themselves, 

but I think that's just a 

[00:28:12] Alex: is like, how much, how much is that? How much is that citation worse or, or worth, right? Like the, the, the idea of getting people onto your site and then generate revenue on your site and then, you know, like that kind of loop is gone. And, and 

[00:28:27] Brian: Well, okay, so that loop is gone. I think what, what, there's no economic engine right now, but the value is clearly there. Like, and I think that is the, the sort of divide in that it's not like institutional media has no value, it's just that the economic mechanisms are not there to capture that value for them.

[00:28:46] Troy: Yeah. my

[00:28:47] Alex: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

[00:28:49] Troy: Trump seemed to put a nail into, you know, kind of valuing IP as an input to, to, to generative models.

[00:28:56] Brian: Yeah. I don't think he's, he, he's gonna be the one to save the media industry.

[00:29:00] Troy: No, no. 

I mean, if 

the, there, I mean, 

there wasn't momentum to begin with, but, you know,

the the idea that what, what the, the, the tech people have framed this as being existential. That if we can't kind of disregard IP and train models, you know, willy-nilly that we won't win in ai. That's the argument.

[00:29:21] Alex: I worry, I worry as a content creator, I worry that the input stuff is going to, that, that, that things are leaning more and more into the input stuff being, fair use. and, and as that's happening, I think is, is just, you know, it's just gonna make things a lot harder. But, another thing just like, to keep on the back of your minds, and I don't know how important that is, but it's, it's good to remember Google's incentives here, because a lot of people I talk to say, well, why would Google do this to themselves?

Right? Which is, you know, a lot of the revenue comes from sending people to these links and, and they make so much money on that spin wheel. But I think, Google only monetizes 20 to 30% of its search queries. Right. So if it can create a product, around, you know, that can monetize like the rest of those 70% and keep people on the site, it, you know, there's a big buffer in there that they, they'll, they'll be 

able to work through 

[00:30:13] Troy: I agree. I agree. And I would operate if I was running Google, which I never will be. I

would operate with, 

[00:30:20] Brian: You 

[00:30:21] Troy: with some confidence that, 

[00:30:23] Alex: uh, we, 

we, we believe in you. I heard Pelotons looking for a new CEO or 

[00:30:26] Troy: yeah, yeah.

I would, I would operate with some confidence that owning, you know, a decision making interface like AI can be monetized in some shape or form, and that their subscription revenue's gonna go way up

as people 

pay for more powerful, uh. Google, I'm not worried about 

I'm not worried about Google either, but I did forget the fourth category, Brian.

And that would be state appendage media. Which is

what what, 

[00:30:52] Brian: front. I see. That's a front operation 

[00:30:54] Troy: all, all in has 

become, has become the, the official media of the Trump administration.

[00:31:00] Brian: Well, it is remarkable that president, 

[00:31:02] Troy: was a podcast man. Now it's like, it's

[00:31:05] Brian: had the president on yesterday

making major, major pronounce. I, and you know, I'm always like a, a sort of stay in your lane guy. go narrow and deep, et cetera. But let's give, let's give all in its laurels and that they pulled off the lane switch. They 

[00:31:23] Troy: did, and not only that, they converted like you're obviously the freedberg of, of this

podcast and they converted him to maga. 

[00:31:31] Brian: Oh. 

[00:31:31] Alex: if you fucking tell me that I'm the Jason. Troy,

[00:31:34] Troy: Well, you are a Jason, so I'll take, I'll take 

[00:31:37] Alex: no,

[00:31:38] Troy: I'm gonna hang up.

[00:31:39] Alex: I'm gonna hang up. We don't have a Jason on this podcast. 

[00:31:44] Troy: Yeah, it's ab this teaches me? It's like it teaches me.

[00:31:47] Alex: This podcast should teach people. You always have a boss. And even when you're a billionaire wearing fancy sweaters doesn't mean you are not gonna have to be a boot liquor because you're insecure and you need the 

[00:31:57] Brian: put liquor. 

[00:31:58] Alex: I, I mean, it's, it's kind of, it's kind of wild. Like, I mean, these guys keep talking about having fuck you money, but they, that's the last thing they're doing. I wish they did. You know, I 

[00:32:08] Troy: That's why it surprises me that you haven't embraced Elon. 'cause she's clearly, taking his tongue off the boot.

[00:32:15] Alex: oh, I, I, I've, I've been on the record to say like, well, at least he's got balls.

[00:32:19] Troy: Yeah.

Well you could now trade the lucid in for a Tesla. You know, you

could that I, I'm, I, I'm not transactional like that. It's not because No, like, you know.

[00:32:28] Brian: So, so Troy, I like to, I'm just, I'm gonna try to change the conversation. I, I'm interested in using your framework, for some of the real world examples we're seeing right now. And I think the Washington Post is, is a really. Interesting one, and I think it's a real case study about how hard it is to, to have change within these organizations. I mean, this week the Washington Post split off its much derided third newsroom to basically get it out of editorial. Now some of this is just like is

is 

org 

chart 

[00:32:59] Alex: newsroom? 

[00:33:00] Brian: Yeah, so I'm just gonna explain it. But like, some of this is, is just org chart stuff, but I think it's important. So the third newsroom, also known as WP Ventures, was the, the attempt by the Washington Post to basically create the new business while operating the old business.

And, and what they did, and it was, you know, about exploring new formats. And new arrangements, creators, et cetera. And they basically took it out of, you know, the newsroom and the regular editorial structure and they put it under Susie Watford, who is the chief strategy officer. It used to be under an editor, and now it's basic.

And basically, and they basically said it is to make it more closely aligned with commercial, and this is sort of getting around the church and state divide. They're gonna focus entirely on building personality driven content and franchises around personalities, across topics that will appeal to new audiences with strong commercial opportunities. and I think 

[00:34:02] Troy: Talk. Talk dirty to me, Brian.

[00:34:04] Brian: yeah, no, I, it, it reminded me a little bit, Troy, of that time when this was the challenge of the internet and how do you change print organizations and. There was a moment, and you were part of this, right? It's like, well, you put the, you split 'em off. Maybe you put the digital people in charge of the digital instead of having it as an afterthought of the print people and you gotta blow up the structures, gimme your analysis of what's going on at the Post I.

[00:34:34] Troy: I think that newsrooms are culturally powerful. I think that. They, that structure exists to create necessary independence, but it gets in the way of organizational evolution. the magazine challenge was a little bit different. You basically had a generation of, you know, I would say talented, you know, editors and creative types that grew up around delivery of a product through a very leveraged medium where you could put a lot of money into a single publication and have a kind of, you know, entitled culture that goes along with that. And you had, you know, a hundred decent magazine businesses, like a good one is a hundred million dollars. And, you know, that's a lot of money to be able to sort of indulge a, a, you know, a, a a a team to build a product and then go out and sell it. So when you then go to change, and, and remember too that the magazine world had all these sort of. Third rail items that you couldn't do or that that, that you had to kind of avoid, which is, you know, you don't understand the brand was like a key kind of term of that era or that, you know, that, that, that, that there was this kind of power in people that could interpret both culture and the brand and where your brand sat in it and you know, it was all very. You know, it was a structure that, that kind of got in the way of, of creating change, particularly when the internet came along and said, you know, we need to broaden what we publish to be able to kind of compete in a, you know, demand-based media era. And that, you know, we need to create more, we need to create cheaper, we need to create different media types.

We need to be extremely agile. You know, we need to cr we need to cross the threshold from that, which is just, you know, editorial to that which blends editorial and, you know, advertising IE branded content of some type. And so all of those things made it really hard to change the company. So you create a different group you, you create, which we did, which was a little unconventional as we created, you know, a separate editorial organization and. A separate sales organization, and then you hope that that can get some, some scale in terms of revenue and, and you can, and, and, and you can compete with the pure plays that are like taking lots of revenue from you. At the time it was people like Buzzfeed and Refinery 29 and, and Vice. and then, you know, over time you try to then reassemble the organization around the new dominant media, which is, which is kind of, you know, digital where magazines still exist and are important but are kind of an afterthought economically. So yeah, it comes with, a lot of danger, in terms of managing a, a change process. And so in the case of Washington Post, like, I mean, I think it's even more difficult because the rules around, you know, a hard news organization are more forbidding

[00:37:34] Brian: Yeah, so I mean, I think you have to just change the structure in, in some ways. I mean, 

[00:37:38] Troy: well, the idea that a revenue leader would tell people what to make. It is a hard

[00:37:43] Brian: well, they sort of like have it in between now they have, they have a general manager, and she has, she has background in editorial, but she's one of those people who sort of straddled, straddled the line between, between both sides, so to speak. But I look at like the posts and, you know, it happened just at the time when they, they lost their, their TikTok guy.

Like one of the sort of great things that they were able to do at the post over the last few years is they're really good at like TikTok and like you two, this guy Dave Jorgenson, who is really good at it. And, you know, they, they've done a better job there than I would say like the New York Times has done. But of course, and this is a story repeated across institutional media. He's now leaving, he's going with Micah Gelman and, and Micah's,deputy to start their own video company, to 

[00:38:30] Troy: Well, they're not talent, they're not talent management organizations like you find in Hollywood. That's another dimension to the change dynamic. And you know, you gotta remember that typically there's unions involved that wanna create kind of a, a level paying playing field in terms of how people are compensated and treated.

And then you get, but you're, but you're really living in a star culture when it comes to sort of impresario media, which is what the, what you're talking about.

[00:38:55] Brian: Well, that's why these structures have to change. Like you cannot have that sort of egalitarian ethos. I love it. Like I, I feel like I'm like spiritually a socialist, but I live in the real world and it just doesn't work. And and so you have to end up having this, because when you're in, I think we see this across the whole media 

[00:39:14] Troy: You should move to Canada. 

[00:39:16] Brian: Or you get a little, you, you get a little bit of, of the best of both worlds. I would, I, I'm into that. but we see this across media where you have to be like a performer. And I think that those are, those worlds are combining and that's why you see, say comedians who are now, you know, trusted news sources.

and I don't mean, I mean the news style comedians, not Stephen Colbert who had a very bad week because his show is getting canceled. but that is another sort of sign of the shifting. Now, when, when the news came out that Colbert's the Late Show is, is going to go away next year. It was an interesting Rorschach test for me, for how people view the state of the media business.

Because one side, it was all about, it was all about Trump and it was all about playing fey to Trump. And I don't, I don't doubt that that is part of the calculus, as the deal goes through for Paramount and Skydance takes over, however. The other side, and, and it was leaked immediately, was that Colbert was making something around $20 million.

The show has 200, 200 staffers. It loses $40 million a year. It costs, a hundred million to make cut those cut, cut the losses in half. Say it only loses 20 million. you can't continue that. Like late night tv as we've discussed on, on this show repeatedly is in the uncanny valley of media. Like watching.

It just seems like you're, you're in a, like a time capsule. and the successors to that are not going to, are not gonna have 200 staffers in a band. I mean, get rid of the band. They should have gotten rid of the band. No offense to the band, whoever the band is, but they should have done that a long time ago.

[00:40:50] Alex: Yeah, I mean, I think the economics may sound really, I mean, even when you, how, how, when you think about it, 200 people, $200 million budget, right? They make 40 episodes a year, or no, 

it's way more than that, 

right? How many episodes a year do they 

[00:41:06] Troy: Couple 

[00:41:07] Brian: Well, every week.

You know? every, 

[00:41:09] Alex: weeks. 

[00:41:09] Brian: Most like, I don't know.

[00:41:10] Alex: 40, 40 weeks, five days a week.

Right? I mean, it's not that expensive per episode, but you know, it's not that expensive. The problem is there is the stuff that's taking that over that time is way cheaper to produce. or, or 

[00:41:26] Brian: Well, when you say not that expensive, you're saying not that expensive

[00:41:29] Troy: He is comparing it to the unit cost of producing something for like a Netflix, right, like it,

it's in the scheme of things. That's a lot of episodes. So, it's per, per, per minute. It's not terrible.

[00:41:41] Alex: it's not terrible. it's not terrible, but it just shows that, I think what's happening with TV is like, so structural, that the other, that part of the challenge with Colbert as well is that he had like a very bad, a very bad digital footprint compared to the other guys, which that might save them.

Like you don't, you hardly see Colbert on YouTube and TikTok and stuff like that. His 

[00:42:02] Brian: well.

he also has an extremely old audience.

[00:42:04] Troy: Yeah, I mean, it, it's not that hard to see. I mean, it's sort of like you get a phone call, it says, Hey, we're going to need to actually make, you know this stuff, pencil out as we move through the transaction. Hey, would you mind cutting some expense as we try to put these companies together, better to lay off people before the transaction so I don't have to be the bad guy and I'll give you a job if you do that. So then, I mean, I've been through this and so you're like, you know, where do you think you can cut expense? Oh, this late show's losing $40 million. It's, oh, but it's a great franchise and we love Colbert and all that stuff. And they're like, but Trump hates him. And we, you know, need to serve that master.

But, you know, but that's not really the driving factor. Can we cut 40 million out of their budget? Mm. Maybe not. Can we cut 60 million out so it's actually profitable to tune to 20% or something like that? Mm, that would be absolutely harrowing. So just cut the thing.

Just cut 

it now. Get rid of the people.

Let's move on. The, the, that, that, that, that format, that type is, is, is kind of dying and we will.

[00:43:10] Alex: Yeah. And you show your feely and you show your chops to the incoming kind of leadership. I also think, like when you look at it, like if you look at the modality of the, there's a lot of things happening. Like the, the celebrity, celebrity is not the same. It used to be celebrity now has to do a completely different circuit, like of social media and podcasts and stuff like that.

[00:43:31] Brian: And so like, I'm sure the chicken shop date gets a lot more views than the same person happening on Colbert. And by the way, what does the chicken shop date cost per minute. What's

[00:43:40] Alex: I 

mean, how much does Yeah, I '

[00:43:42] Brian: cause that's the economic comparison, not like to Netflix.

[00:43:46] Alex: It's why we don't, it's the same thing. It's why we also don't, you know, like music doesn't really have new bands anymore 'cause it's really expensive to travel with a band and share that money.

Instead you have a DJ with a laptop, you know, that's great. It costs you what price of a airplane ticket and some RCA cables. You're good. It's like the immersive Van Gogh. That's like the greatest like scam around.

yeah, so, so I think especially like all that celebrity media stuff is totally upended. I mean, it's all like hot ones and chicken shop date and whatever else, or, these podcasts which are so cheap to produce. so it's, it's sad to see and it, and it's probably yes to all of the reasons, right? Yes. It was probably like, well, you know, we get, we score some points with Trump, we score some points with whoever buying us, whatever.

but that format's been dead. Like, I don't know what, what's up? I. Couldn't you see that five years ago that that was happening? Like how can you even be surprised? I'm surprised that these things are still on the air.

[00:44:42] Brian: Yeah, but I mean, look, o over the years when, when cable was fading with cord cutting cord, never in whatever, look, ESPN was going out there and John Skipper saying, we still believe in the cable bundle, cable bundle. You gotta, you

[00:44:55] Alex: Yeah, yeah. We had, we, we, yeah, we had, like, we had, we had folks here saying that, you know, digital media was doing great and, and because dot dash number were great. I, I think maybe we need to, Why do you keep taking shots at no, but, because I think, I think, we maybe used 

Well, Neil. Yeah. I 

[00:45:13] Troy: listen, I mean, as humans, Alex and as media people, we're deeply nostalgic as

[00:45:17] Alex: I, I understand. Look, I'm very nostalgic. I, I, I, I also joined an 

[00:45:22] Troy: I want, I wanna take away some of your, your, some of your, the things you cherish.

[00:45:27] Alex: Well, I mean the, the, the video game industry is also going through a massive upheaval. Like, you know, people's attention is split everywhere. Everything's changing. What I'm, what I'm maybe a, a useful, 'cause I think we keep calling some of these things dead and I considered like talk shows and stuff like that.

Dead five, six years ago we talked that like, I have like millennial slash gen Z media consumption habits, which is very true. but maybe there's like a, a way of qualifying them, which is kind of a OL dead, you know, like when you say, oh, a OL is not a going concern anymore, but it still makes hundreds of millions of dollars a year because people still have CDs and modems at the homes.

[00:46:03] Troy: That's not why, that's not why. 

So you 

gotta get your facts right.

[00:46:06] Alex: well, whatever. What, what, why is it then,

[00:46:09] Troy: Because people buy semantic to protect old people. Don't wanna be, you know, ha hacked

[00:46:16] Alex: okay, fine. Because old people don't wanna be hacked It's a, it's 

[00:46:20] Brian: a, it's a direct marketing scheme.

Okay. We can move on.

[00:46:23] Alex: at a, when you're looking at a trajectory of an industry, I think we have a lot of things that are running on fumes that we can probably, even if they're gonna go on for another 20, 30 years, we can probably go on that they will have no impact.

And they're not, they're not telling us anything about where the industry is heading. And sometimes we look at those numbers and we say, this is still working, this is still on the air. So therefore, it's, I think it taints our view of the future instead of saying, no, no, these things, they're gonna stick around for a while, but we cannot consider them at 

[00:46:55] Troy: Well, this is a, this is a podcast about the future, so let's fucking move

[00:46:59] Alex: Well, that's, that's why I said like the, the, to me, like the, the, the, those nightly shows should have been taken off the list five years ago, 

[00:47:07] Troy: Well, there's also another story here, a a cream skimming story, Alex, which is if you wanna listen to the monologue on Colbert, which is still a nice little tight piece of content, you can go watch it on your favorite YouTube platform and all the value is taken by the aggregators.

[00:47:26] Alex: but he could do that as a daily podcast. He records in his bedroom

[00:47:29] Brian: Totally. So I, I wanna talk about like the, the, the future a little bit here. 'cause this is a good segue. and, and that's about like what formats are gonna work in the future and whether you can build com, competitive advantage with a unique format. I know, Troy, you're, you're big about that. One of the ones that I've been tracking is this guy Pablo Tore. Do you know him? it's, it, it, he has a pod video podcast called Po Pablo Tore, finds out and he used to be on the Ringer, and he got, he has these like viral investigations that he does, and then instead of these things would've been 2,500, 4,000 word, you know, written pieces. But he does them, and it, it's a performance basically with co-hosts in which he explains the findings.

[00:48:18] Troy: And it is done in a very engaging video way. And he's actually breaking big stories. I mean, he did this story about, bill Belichick and his significantly younger, girlfriend and he, he rung everything he could out of that. But recently he ended up having,uncovering a scandal at the NFL Alex, would you bring it up rather than messaging us when you have to have a hard

[00:48:41] Alex: I, I always say you can do this Troy. You can do this transparently while I'm Ving this fucking podcast, you don't have Exactly. I think he's, he is, I think he's great. I think this is a sign that like, you know, people like to wr their hands and they say, well, without an institutional media and without newspapers, nobody will do accountability work. But there are signs out there that it is possible to do it and also to change up the format in how you do it.

[00:49:09] Brian: This does not, this is not the same as a long New York Times investigation, but when we talk about impact and journalism, I mean the, the executive director of the N-F-L-P-A resigned because of this. I think that's pretty remarkable. 

[00:49:24] Troy: is cool. You 

know, the other great Pablo. Tore.

way to go, Pablo, the other one is the, the, the breaking and entering example is a fresh take on the, you know. The world of, of agency updates, and

[00:49:38] Brian: Yeah, it's like the modern adage it's great 

ways.

in any case, very, very high energy guys. They're very good like performers. I think we're seeing that across the board. I think when you look at like what the information is trying to do with their, they're basically trying to fast follow with TBPN. I think the difference, at least in the early days, is the TBPN guys are performers and, and the information TV has journalists who are playing performers.

And I think that is part of the, the challenge for a lot is like, you have to be performers these days. I mean, you just have to be, there's no other choice. Because you're competing with people who are natural born performers. I mean, did you see Medi Hassan who did that? One of those Jubilee debates.

[00:50:26] Alex: Oh my god. Yeah, that 

[00:50:27] Brian: so he took on 20 far right people.

And what, it's so funny, 'cause this is on both sides. If it's, it doesn't matter who you are, if it's Ben Shapiro, or, who's the British guy, we talked about it. Anyway, when you get in the cage with one of these professional debate people, like, you're gonna get your face ripped off like a civilian should not do that.

These people are well trained and they're dangerous. So just don't, don't get involved in that. And many Hassan, like had had his way with these, with, with these far right people. one guy lost his job. 

[00:51:03] Alex: Yeah, I mean, and, and the 

[00:51:04] Brian: he doesn't mind being called a Nazi at all. That didn't,

that but. 

[00:51:08] Alex: Yeah, that's crazy. And that Jubilee thing popped up and the amount of content that gets created around that, right? It's actually really valuable if you're a podcast or a media personality to appear on that, kind of go into the octagon essentially. And then the amount of content that you can generate, little clips and stuff like that, is insane.

Like there's, he's been on dozens of podcasts since then. so I think we should do one like,Alex Schleifer versus 20 Media Executives would be good.

Uh,

yeah, 20 Guy. Troy, Troy Young, I dunno, what would it be

[00:51:40] Brian: who would you battle? Troy? 

[00:51:41] Alex: 20 blue collar workers,

[00:51:43] Brian: I, I can't do that. That's not for me. I, I shy from contact 

[00:51:48] Troy: I mean, this is, versus 20 executives. Yeah, I think that would be good. 

[00:51:53] Brian: Sherry, Sherry Phillips from, from Forbes, the CEO of Forbes said that I've softened over the years. She said, as the industry has gotten tougher, I've gotten, I've gotten easier on, on, on, the people running these businesses. anyway, I do think we are seeing the, the change in these kind of formats. What I wonder, however, is whether a unique format is enough in some ways.

'cause I just feel like everything becomes tired and you have to move on to a different format these days. I mean, look at Axios. I mean, their format innovation is now not an innovation. And I mean, maybe it was because it was just bullet points and 

[00:52:30] Troy: I, I would actually disagree there.

[00:52:32] Brian: Okay?

[00:52:32] Troy: Respectfully, Brian,

[00:52:34] Brian: Yes.

[00:52:34] Troy: I think that bullets are not the moat, obviously. I think that. Axios continues to write news in a way that is easy to digest, unlike many, many of their competitors. And it's a whole ethos that kind of trickles through the entire organization around brevity. And so it is in a way, a differentiator. And I do think that, listen, those guys, the breaking and entering guys, all they're trying to do to get their company going is find a hack to get attention. And then it's kind of like, you know, will that format of them, do you know, mad cap agency updates and stuff, will that sustain, you know, maybe they're gonna have to evolve their formats as all media companies do, but now they have attention. So now they have attention, they can start to build out their media brand, which is the hardest thing to do when you're beginning anything these days. So you do that, you get a little hack going, you get a little attention as you can see from the Wall Street Journal and others. And then you figure out where you're gonna build something sustainable.

So I I, I, I think this is actually the zero to one challenge, is how do you, do something that's disruptive and that hits a kind of utilitarian need in this case, which is like,

yeah, I'm in the agency business. I want an update every morning that's like a minute long. Great.

[00:53:55] Alex: I mean for format is format is easy to copy, which is why, you know, folks need like format plus, personality, right? Which is what the chicken shop date is or, 

[00:54:06] Brian: Well that was, that's kind of my point. Alex just made it

[00:54:09] Alex: Yeah. I, I, I, I feel like, the, the, the one there have been like old media brands that have pretty good formats. I wonder if it's the future, you know, the GQ 10 things, the Architectural Digest, you know, walk through some celebrities home.

these are formats that they've kind of jumped on and, and, and, and owned. And I, I think if you're a media brand and you're not trying to see which type of formats you can create around, because, 'cause a brand can be a personality, right? Like a walkthrough. My home by Architectural Digest has more value, I think, 

[00:54:39] Brian: Yeah. I just wonder how if they last, 'cause it's, think about the listicle format that went everywhere and now when you run into the listicles. Again, it's in the uncanny valley to me.

[00:54:50] Alex: Hey, you're talking about text formats again? Those

are, those are 

all gone. Those are 

[00:54:56] Brian: while that is, that is another, thing, you know, fortune this week cut 10% and it's become a regular thing. I feel like AI, kind of like COVID was like the handy excuse for anything. Like everyone is gonna reference AI when they're making these cuts. And of course they mention ai, but they also said that their new strategy is to embrace franchises.

A k lists the most powerful women, et cetera. as well as, you know, and this is an emerging playbook, events, audio and video. And I think a lot of these companies are going in similar directions from what I can tell, particularly in that set of, of magazine brands. I don't know if you see this, Troy. It seems like everyone wants to run a version of the Forbes playbook.

[00:55:45] Troy: well, I mean, I think the pressure on the business is real, so you gotta find money elsewhere. I think if you don't have a real reporting flywheel that's serving a vertical in a meaningful way, which is to me what they're trying to do over a wired, and it's more sustainable than you look to kind of pimp out the, the, the, your ip your brand in different ways.

So people can use it as a, you know, as a, as a badge of distinction. And you combine that with, you know, an event or two and you sell, you know, you, you, you, you're by necessity, very ad driven. And I think it's a strategy. I, you know, I, I do think that, it's a strategy afforded by people that have brands that can, you know, designate something.

And I don't think it makes for a very lively or, you know, high margin media business, but it's still a business.

[00:56:35] Alex: I've got a hard stop. 

[00:56:36] Brian: All right. you got a hard stuff. So we're not gonna get into 

Ag agentic ai. Can you give us just a couple of minutes on what the hell is going on with this Open AI agents and why Silicon Valley? Is so obsessed with, with robots booking vacations of all things.

[00:56:51] Alex: mean, I, I think the robots booking vacation things, all of these examples, the problem is they always come from executives who haven't booked their own flight in years. So that's number one. It's always the worst examples. you know, I think, I don't know that it was probably happening in the past when people were trying to sell computers where they would give stupid examples, but these are always stupid.

Example number two, energetic AI is of course, the future that a lot of people want, including ourselves, because there's a lot of shit we do every day that we don't want to do. Number three, these things are nowhere close to doing that because already just with information, they make such massive mistakes, that,you would never trust to book your flight, let alone like, you know, kind of manage, your calendar.

Although, we'll, we are going to see some of the things like managing calendars and stuff like that move forward. Everybody's trying to move into that. The people that own the information like Google and Apple are the best positioned. However, OpenAI probably has the best technology right now. The reason Apple and Google have best position is because they have access to your life.

Nobody else does. But I don't think we're anywhere close right now to like feeling comfortable enough to deal with the mistakes of a computer, of a, an AI going rogue on a computer and doing things on your behalf. It's still very slow. It still asks you every time you do something. So it's, interesting.

But, I think what we're watching right now with this AI thing is, prototyping, in, in, in, in the, in the public a lot of, 'cause everybody's mo trying to move so fast. We are seeing stuff that we should never see that should be baked for another two years. But, 

[00:58:17] Troy: Yeah. What we're also seeing, Alex, is, a kind of evolution or reinvention of connections between, uh, interfaces.

So as, as those become, more sort of infallible as API connections that can be ingested by the agents, we're gonna see more realistic agentic behavior. And so we're just sort of on the path there. The vertical ones, like the one that you referenced in the notes, Brian, for scheduling called

what AB is a massive block

[00:58:47] Alex: Yeah.

[00:58:47] Troy: Yeah, 

[00:58:48] Brian: He had me talking 

[00:58:49] Alex: frustrating, I gotta, I gotta, speaking of block it. My, my AI is telling me that I have, I 

[00:58:55] Brian: That's fine. You'll miss. You'll Ms. 

Good later. Alright. See, see you both. I have some format ideas that I want to pitch 

Okay. I think we could, we could spin off Alex's little like high energy. One minute

rant. See it.

[00:59:10] Troy: All right.

[00:59:11] Brian: Should we do a quick good product?


[00:59:13] Good Product
---

​

[00:59:16] Troy: I, I had an encounter, I don't know if it was a good product, Brian, but I remember being in the Denver airport with my kids eating

Shake Shack. I like, I like the Denver Airport and I really like Shake Shack. I like the Shake Shack.

What's it called? The, the, the one with bacon and sauce. And I

actually like it in a lettuce wrap. It's

nice. 

[00:59:37] Brian: wow. it's 

[00:59:38] Troy: it's called the Smoke Shack, I believe.

Anyway, that's not my, so I was reading the newspaper and I, read about Dave's hot Chicken, which had

started, 

[00:59:49] Brian: That's a great story.

[00:59:51] Troy: In Portland or something where, you know, it was like a food truck kind of thing.

900 bucks. it might not have been Portland. Is it Austin? Maybe you can fact check it. Anyway, and I was walking in Brooklyn Heights yesterday and I was like, oh my God, there is a Dave's hot chicken and.

[01:00:09] Brian: It started in East Hollywood.

[01:00:11] Troy: Oh, in la.

[01:00:12] Brian: Three childhood friends pulled $900 together to start a business. They were inspired by Nashville style hot chicken and the success of In-N-Out. It was just amazing how fast they 

[01:00:21] Troy: How fast? How fast? So, so, you

[01:00:23] Brian: This is 2 20 17. This is, this is not an internet app. 

[01:00:28] Troy: There was a, there was a lineup. The, the interior was vial and it was like, it's like graffiti localized, like Brooklyn spray painted on the wall with a bunch of shapes and stuff. So it's not the most hospitable place to have a bae. But you know, I got the bundle number one, which is two gigantic chicken strips. Terrific fries on, strangely, like two pieces of wonder bread. And with a nice, with a nice spicy dipper. They ask you

[01:01:00] Brian: Well, that's the classic way to eat hot chicken.

[01:01:02] Troy: Yeah, well, how they asked you how you want it, medium, spicy, whatever. And it was, I feel like I need to go to my cardiologist, but it

was good. It was good. The, the room was gross. The chicken was, was, was a good consistency. It was spicy and a little bit sweet, and the portions were very American, which I would've split it with you. We could had a nice, you know, $13

shared meal 

[01:01:29] Brian: that. would've been a nice 

and the fries were crispy, crinkles, which is a nice touch. overall people seemed happy. There was a lineup and, So in, in eight years, they created a billion dollar, business. And what's what's remarkable to me about this is, you know, hot chicken, like I think of Hattie Bees in Nashville. You used to have to go to Nashville to get like hot chicken. That's, you know, you go there, you go to Hattie Bees, you can, I've gone to Hattie Bees in Las Vegas now, but they just like got the private equity money a little bit too late.

It's impossible to have a really popular local restaurant now that stays local. It, it inevitably, if you, if you hit it, you're gonna, you're gonna go big and you can do it very quickly as they did with Dave's hot Chicken.

As long as you got the formula down and you, and it's extensible. So that's a good, that's a good, good product.

[01:02:18] Troy: Yeah. It's, well, you know, it was, it was, you know, with an asterisk. But 

the other thing 

[01:02:23] Brian: Well, yeah, it this party last night was kind of a nice product. It's at this bar that's kind of like a private bar, but it's not a membership bar. And it's owned by, I forget the woman's name, and I think AB might be an investor in it. It's called Peoples,

[01:02:38] Troy: and it's like a, a, a room in a, in a building, like a long room in, on 13th in Manhattan. And, AB had assembled a,

[01:02:48] Brian: oh wait, it's an evening club. An art salon? Yeah. To 

[01:02:51] Troy: That's, there you go. And it was a nice group of, sort of media, media adjacent some attorneys there, some deal types. Your friend who spoke very highly of you, cj

[01:03:02] Brian: Oh yeah. He's got a great business. He does mostly metrics, which is basically, I guess kind of like eckery, but for CFOs. Great area.

[01:03:11] Troy: He's a CFO

[01:03:13] Brian: Yeah. He's a CFO. That's why that's, that's the best

[01:03:15] Troy: You know who else I met last night? Who, this is an interesting company. So imagine that you're a vertically integrated, fortune cookie advertising play. and you buy up all of these, fortune cookie production capabilities and with each one that you buy, you get distribution into local restaurants that use you and you basically supply, you know, Chinese restaurants with, free. Fortune cookies. Now the hook is on one side. You know, it's gonna tell you your future. On the other side is an ad for like,

you know, for, you know, Geico,

[01:03:53] Brian: Yeah. Is this open fortune?

[01:03:56] Troy: might be

anyway, turns out that it's a killer company, meaning it's not massive. It's, you know, mid twenties revenue, but it's got 50% margins. It's great business.

[01:04:07] Brian: Yeah. I mean, there's like Reddit, there's like Reddit threads on, on open fortune and how the, for even the fortune cookies have, have ads these days. I'm long on ads. Ads will always find a way. I don't care about ai.

[01:04:18] Troy: Well, I think that they're finding a way. And the next is to open up the Mexican market by doing a sort of like fortune cookie like thing in a tortilla. So look

forward to seeing more fortunes in your free, you know, kind of end cap to your meal at

your favorite Mexican joint.

[01:04:36] Brian: I, I like had it as a sub beat when I was a reporter at Adweek to do like weird ad network. I, I covered weird ad networks, you know, like urinal cake, like ad networks and whatnot, because I mostly there's so much attention in the bottom of the urinal.

Yeah,

And they, they all have crazy statistics, you know, 'cause you have to, you have to put numbers on everything.

Like, you know, the amount of time and attention like you because you add it up, that are spent at urinals. And you know, one of them was, I've always been a big fan of the elevator ad network Captivate. Great name for it too. I mean, because you're in the elevator, you're not gonna make eye contact.

You know, you're gonna go up 40 stories or something and you're gonna watch some headlines. And adss,

great business, gas station, TV execution. I do have in, if I ever have a Wikipedia, I do want, to have in there that I got cheddar on gas stations.

[01:05:28] Troy: write one for you if you write one for me.

[01:05:29] Brian: Yeah. Okay. No problem. Well, you'll have a controversies and criticism section.

I don't know if I'll have one.

Not really. but yeah, I welcome that. All the good Wikipedias have co I I don't think you should have a Wikipedia unless you have a controversies and criticism section. 'cause that's the section I go to immediately.

That's how you get, you get to really know a person. Okay. Is that it? My only other good product is you ever have like a salt and crust, like one of the salt and crusted brand?

Zenos. They case the thing in like an entire thing. A salt. I tried to make it one time. It's harder to make than you would think. it's a good product. Keeps the, keeps the moisture in. Too many Americans are squeamish about the whole fish. It's ridiculous. A lot of you are going to Europe for vacation this summer.

'cause that's what you're, that's what Americans do these days. Get the whole fish, watch like a French guy de-bone. Like a whole fish. Like, I mean this is this, this guy's gonna be totally locked in. It's gonna be like watching a surgeon perform. so take notes, 

[01:06:30] Troy: Where did you have that, Brian?

[01:06:32] Brian: I had that at, Casa Tua in Miami Beach.

[01:06:36] Troy: Yeah. Nice.

[01:06:37] Brian: Very nice. All right, let's leave it there. That was high energy. It's good.

[01:06:42] Troy: Thank you.

[01:06:42] Brian: Thanks. 



