PVA S2E55
===


[00:00:00] cold open
---

[00:00:00] Brian: everything's a meme to you including my, country of birth

I've never been to Canada, but.

[00:00:05] Troy: You've never been to Canada

[00:00:07] Brian: no, I've never set foot in Canada outside of

[00:00:09] Troy: should go up to Montreal for the weekend

[00:00:10] Brian: I've wanted to. I imagine it's one of those places like Portland that I imagine I would like.

[00:00:15] Troy: got a little taste of Europe. what do they call it? Eurocore? 

[00:00:17] Alex: Well, you guys, let's get to the topic. I think Troy just doesn't want to talk about the unity thing because it's about the executive class losing out,

against the people 

[00:00:25] Brian: I think Troy doesn't want to talk about it because I want Vanya to play his reaction to when Alex, laid out like how the developers were getting screwed over.

[00:00:34] Troy: was my 

reaction?

[00:00:35] Brian: I've always, wah, wah, wah. 




[00:00:39] Intro end
---

[00:01:01] Brian: So Alex, the, the good guys and gals won. I hate gals. the good people won in this, at least seemingly, but let's unpack this just really quickly because this guy Richard Tiele, seems like there was a lot going on here other than, actually one instance where the developers on a platform actually have, have some leverage.

[00:01:23] Alex: first of all, to understand gaming as an industry and as a, community, it is famously, a bunch of people that get very, very angry and very, very quickly and burn the house down, the gaming industry is a little bit like the French, somebody tries to extend the retirement age by two years and Paris burns.

and so, I mean, even, even gamers themselves are known to be right assholes when anything happens that they don't like. So I wasn't surprised by, the pushback. An interesting thing here is, when YouTube changes stuff, you will often get the creators kind of respond to it and get

[00:01:58] Troy: are they like that, Alex? Because they're all tweaked down on a game where they kill everything in front of them? Why are they like that? Because they're angry young men that play games all

[00:02:07] Alex: And there's a little bit of that

[00:02:08] Brian: slurping down Mountain Dew all weekend. I

[00:02:11] Alex: Well, I think it's also like, 

[00:02:12] Troy: When you get angry, should I rack it up to 

your gaming mentality? 

[00:02:16] Alex: I'm, bringing it up

[00:02:17] Brian: I'm trafficking in like crass gamer stereotypes

[00:02:20] Alex: that in media, you're actually only dealing with like 10 percent real people and the rest are bots, but like in gaming, like we actually have a lot of people that, respond to it.

Here's why I think this matters. I'm not passing a judgment call on what, how gamers behave. I've, I've, I've said enough about that. Follow me on, on threads if you want to hear my hot takes. 

[00:02:38] Brian: First time that's ever been 

[00:02:40] Alex: But, uh, but I think here's what happens in this case, the platform fucked with the creators and the feedback didn't only come from creators, which is what usually happens when YouTube or Facebook does something.

Right. Facebook changes something and a bunch of people at some like media companies start complaining. The readers don't care. There isn't a huge uproar. In this case, there was a massive uproar by both the game developers. And millions of gamers, I think that probably helped make this less tenable than it would have been.

I think either way, it was so badly handled, and they had to walk back so much of it that it was clear that the only thing that they could do next was fire the CEO. I think they

[00:03:22] Brian: Wait, wait. No, he, he, he retired. He's he abrupt, he abruptly retired, which I love. I love these days. I want to, I want to get to that point because I think, but just a real quick aside, because I love asides is, I think it's time that we stop with the euphemisms for people being fired. Let's just admit that like people get fired.

we've all been fired before. And there are these stupid euphemisms where I know when you were like writing, when I'd be like writing, if you weren't sure someone was, was fired. Yeah. It was they exited, which means they were probably fired. 

[00:03:52] Alex: the key thing that annoys me and people get fired and blunders get made. But once again, it's somebody that has been. In the gaming industry for nearly 15 years and has never shown a passion or curiosity for game development for games themselves. I'm not saying everybody has to, but like, if you're going to take on the job, like, I

[00:04:14] Troy: Okay, the guy created a stupid policy and then brought it to market

without any sensitivity. And so he lost his job, whether he quit or was forced out or whatever. a, that's my understanding of

[00:04:25] Alex: but Brian, when, when you were, when you ran the companies you did, you cared about the shit that you were

[00:04:31] Troy: He's not, he never ran a country's a peon.

[00:04:33] Alex: A 

[00:04:34] Brian: thank you, thank you, Troy. I'm glad you're coming around to my peon class identity.

[00:04:40] Troy: No, you're the one that's, I only say that because just to make

[00:04:43] Brian: Oh no, you can't take it back, you can't take it

[00:04:45] Troy: No, that's your self constructed persona on the podcast. View from economy.

[00:04:49] Brian: Yeah, well, it's better than being the overlord, right? 

I guess my one question on this is, are there fewer game developers? Because the reason that platforms can screw with creators, I think it's a really interesting point you make about the fans being up in arms.

And I don't know if that's totally true, but I'll have to check it out. But it's just the sheer number. It's like why the ad boycotts never work for Facebook and Google. They've got millions of advertisers. This isn't CBS, but you can't like choke them off with anything. It's just leverage. Are there, is there more leverage in the gaming industry?

[00:05:18] Troy: Chris has a hard stop and I love this gaming talk, but it's like kind of boring.

[00:05:23] Alex: yeah, there's more, there's more leverage. 

I love that media bias when the gaming industry is bigger than the music and the movie industry combined. So, you know, wah, wah. Yeah,

I guess it's more important to

talk about, stuff that a few thousand people pay attention 

[00:05:37] Brian: we gotta talk, about the recipes.

[00:05:39] Alex: great vibe to bring it. I actually really like, I like Kimball. I used to watch him on America's Test Kitchen all the time. Are you gonna intro him, Troy?

[00:05:48] Troy: I can, I haven't really

[00:05:50] Brian: Why did you want to have, have 

[00:05:51] Alex: you should have an intro. 

[00:05:52] Brian: Street. It's an actually well designed, digital property, which tells me that it has nothing to do with advertising.

[00:06:00] Troy: he does opportunistic, put, puts, he opportunistically jams in some programmatic, but, it's certainly not an ad dependent organization. yeah, it's reasonably well designed. He has a lot of platform problems because he's fairly hostile to technology,

[00:06:11] Brian: That was great.

[00:06:13] Troy: I mean, Chris is there for the content and the cooking and the, the making and the, the whole enterprise, not for having to build a platform to support his vision. Can, can you see if he's at the door, Alex?

[00:06:25] Alex: I mean, there's no door, but, yeah, I don't see anyone.

[00:06:27] Brian: Oh, so wait, you said he was in the green room.

[00:06:29] Troy: it was a joke, 

[00:06:30] Brian: Oh, I'm a literal 

[00:06:32] Troy: is the link that you, 

[00:06:34] Brian: squad cast. 

[00:06:35] Troy: yeah, it's the one you'd had done

before. 

[00:06:37] Brian: We switched from

Riverside. 

[00:06:39] Alex: this is, riveting podcasting.

[00:06:41] Troy: Yeah. We don't have to include this.

[00:06:42] Brian: Well, I was hoping to get squad cast as a, as a partner. So, Vani, leave it in.

I'd be less of a partner. It's a

branded utility. Oh, 




[00:06:50] Guest start
---

[00:06:51] Troy: Is he there?

[00:06:51] Alex: Yeah. Hi 

[00:06:52] Chris: I can actually see your eyes

now and it's a little thing You do. 

[00:06:55] Troy: Who me? 

[00:06:56] Chris: No, on your,podcast homepage. 

[00:06:59] Troy: All right, guys, this is Chris Kimball. Meet Chris Kimball, the one and only Chris Kimball.

[00:07:03] Chris: Yeah, nice to

meet you 

guys. 

[00:07:04] Alex: nice to meet you, Chris.

[00:07:05] Troy: You know, like in most things, Chris, people develop personas when they, when they start podcasting and part of Alex's persona is he despises advertising. And,Brian Morrissey is a big fan of it.

[00:07:16] Brian: I love it. I love selling ads so we can talk about that, Chris, because I know you

[00:07:20] Chris: I don't like selling ads, because I'm really bad at selling ads. There's a reason.

[00:07:24] Brian: That's why I love it.

[00:07:25] Troy: Chris, by way of introduction, I don't have a long winded thing here to tell people who you are and what you've accomplished and how great you are. You know, I love you. just for some context, I've had the pleasure of working with Chris for the last, I guess, a couple of years, Chris. as he's, you know, endeavoring to build a new kind of media business.

this is one that, called Milk Street that, I think in its construction and it's, kind of revenue structure is very modern. but in many ways is, kind of entirely consistent with the kinds of media businesses that Chris, you've been building since you were like a deadhead or 

since you were like a

cab driver, the old days.

[00:08:03] Chris: deadhead? It's not past tense.

[00:08:06] Troy: you know, we find pockets of Kimball fandom everywhere and you find it in my house. there was a time when we were. Learning to cook and, cooks illustrated was kind of was the go to source for that, and, myself and my wife are huge fans of the publication.

And we used to buy Chris at, I think we were probably subscribers, but we've often bought it at whole foods where it was always featured prominently in the checkout. when you told me this story, there's two things that always many things that stand out in my mind when I think about you.

But one of them is, your insistence on what is required of media to have a kind of subscription proposition that in that it has to have a transformative promise and we can get into that in a second. And the other was the story that you told, which I'd love to start with Chris, if we can, which was why you.

Pivoted with Cook's Illustrated and turned it into the format that it ultimately became and that

ultimately 

made it so successful.

[00:09:04] Chris: Yeah, well, I was publishing in the 80s, a magazine with advertising. so I print a lot of paper and pages and postage and, it occurred to me that I was competing with Condé Nast and everybody else on an uneven playing field with the advertising. And the entire American magazine system was based upon Giving away the subscription to get the volume of eyeballs to sell the advertising, which completely undermined the value of the content.

So when I relaunched it in 93, I, first of all, wanted to create something unique. So it was 32 pages plus cover. I took out all the color. It was a food magazine, no color. I wanted to focus on useful content, not lifestyle and travel. and I wanted people to pay for it, to enhance the perceived value of the content.

And my whole proposition was, it's not about how many recipes, it's which recipes. It's not about how many pages, it's which pages. And so I charged 20 to 30 per year for six times a year for 32 pages all in black and white. 

[00:10:07] Troy: Incredible. 

[00:10:08] Chris: and I also felt that magazines in the United States, not true in Europe, the United States had devalued themselves so much by giving away subscriptions for five or 10 a year that I didn't want it to look like a magazine.

I wanted to look like, actually I based it on a publication, from the Brooklyn Botanical Garden about how to trim shrubbery. It was in black and white. It was like a lithograph. It was just, you know, one of those little monographs, but it had immense value because the crappier it looked, the more valuable the content, I mean, if you get a scientific paper that comes out. It doesn't look great, but it has a lot of value. So I figured by turning it into black and white and using illustrations, et cetera, the content itself would feel more valuable than if you have beautiful colored photos. So the less lifestyle it was, the more people would pay for it.

So eventually I got to a million circulation, you know, over a million circulation, paying 25 bucks a year on average probably for 32 pages plus cover six times a year. And that was because the perceived value was high. and its actual value was high because we help people solve the problems of how to cook.

[00:11:23] Troy: So a million times 25 with low production costs meant probably a pretty profitable business. And then over the years, Chris, what would you offer as the most important way to think about selling a piece of content to someone? What does it take to sell a magazine subscription and what do you focus on?

Magazine or anything else. How do you think about it? And it's probably through the lens of, you know, lifestyle content, but like, what, what did you teach me about that? Like five years ago?

[00:11:55] Chris: My feeling about media is that all media is about transformation. bridal magazine, a fashion magazine, a health magazine, sports and fitness magazine. Everybody wants to be somebody else. Everybody is in the process of transforming themselves. my wife does it an hourly basis. You know, she's it's one diet after the other.

It's one exercise regimen after the other. so if you can help transform somebody, the promises you'll be a different person by consuming this content, that's as high perceived values you could possibly offer. There's nothing better than that. So at the heart, I think of almost any successful media company is that idea So in the world of food, was going to be, Hey, the reason you don't feel confident in the kitchen, it's not your fault.

It's because the recipes you're using don't work. So we test our recipes 40, 50, 60 times. Since our recipes work, you will be a better cook and you will transform not just your cooking, but the thing we never said explicitly was we'll transform your view of yourself. You'll be a more confident person, a happier person, a more popular person because who doesn't like a good cook?

Right? So that was the nut, the core, like every media company has an unstated promise or concept at its heart. And that was ours. And I think that's true of any successful media, any information Based media company is that unstated promise of personal transformation, at least that in a world of in a pyramid of the top

[00:13:33] Troy: That's cool. Brian, how did that sit in your media brain?

[00:13:36] Brian: I was a subscriber. it's funny cause you talk about, and I think it's sort of coming to where we are now. And I think about newsletters a lot cause I just like take it to my own little world. And I think like stripping away all the frippery of media, like is where a lot of it is right now.

And I thought, I thought there was added credibility. because it didn't have all of the high gloss of, I didn't get the other food magazines. I didn't think they were for me, but this, I was like, Oh, well, the fact that it's like more like stripped down to me gives them more credibility and more authenticity than the, like I remember the first time I saw the, uh, what do they call it?

The, the people who prepare food, 

you know, they're spraying it down and And. Yeah, the food stylist like that. I didn't even know food stylists that exist exist. But the fact that food stylists exist just sort of it lends itself to that like, Unreality of it and I think it like makes it less tangible to people

[00:14:30] Troy: Chris, when you, Started with Milk Street. Same idea, but kind of new culinary territory. I'm interested in like, how you arrive there, but equally interested in, in how it became, you know, like every media, there's the media and the thing that pays for it. And then, before you had your media and you had connected related media because you had a television show on PBS and that filled the funnel.

And then you had Yeah. Your actual sellable media item, which was your, your magazine. And today, the pieces exist, but the mechanic of how you monetize it is different because a lot of what you're doing, you're still selling membership or subscription, but now you've branched out and decided to be a store. And I think it's really interesting to talk about that first, the premise of Milk Street, but also the e commerce part, because there's tons of roadkill here.

Like you're going to do this. It seems to be working. the team is, has had to do all the things with, you know, I've been there with you. It's been an incredible learning experience, but I think most media companies that. Earnestly embark on an e commerce vision. It'll either be a rounding error in their business or it will fail.

And I'm curious to hear about that journey, like starting milk street and why you made it an e commerce business. That's insane. 

[00:15:50] Chris: Why didn't you tell me this 7 years ago? Jesus, 

[00:15:53] Brian: Yeah, right. 

[00:15:54] Chris: I'd be so much richer and happier today. 

[00:15:56] Brian: Yeah, you should have done programmatic instead 

[00:15:59] Chris: yeah, I love programmatic. It speaks to everything. I really believe in and think it's authentic. well, the editorial concept of most street was the world's getting smaller because the social media in the digital world, all cooking around the world is going to be a mashup.

So we're not going to have segregated, cultural groups. You'll take something from Thank Japan, you'll take something from Bangkok, you'll take something from Oaxaca, etc. And so you're gonna get this cross cultural mix, and it's not gonna be, you know, one expert, from Mexico, one expert from India, one expert, it's gonna be thousands of voices.

And so we need to get out because we're gonna create a new way of cooking, which is a little bit of this, a little bit of that. it's not just the recipes from other places, it's the techniques, it's the approach to cooking. it's how you think about food is about what kind of flavors you put together.

In fact, the whole premise of traditional American cooking was mostly French, which was take a bunch of high quality ingredients, a lot of heat and a lot of time, and you develop flavor. 

That's 

[00:17:04] Troy: Is that true, Alex? You're

French.

[00:17:06] Alex: true. 

[00:17:07] Chris: so do I get fact checked here every couple of minutes? 

What

[00:17:11] Alex: No, Troy. Troy's joking because he knows, I have no idea,

but I am French 

[00:17:16] Chris: So if you think about other cultures, you know, there's no spices in French cooking. There are no chilies in French cooking. There are no fermented sauces in French cooking. Other places start with big flavors. And so the the cooking process itself is not there so much to develop flavor.

It's there to combine things that already exist. So it's a whole different way of thinking about it. The second part is if you're going to do e commerce, it seems to me and be a content company is the same time. The two things have to mesh inextricably for us. We go around the world to discover new ways of cooking, bring it back, and we're going to change the way you cook.

That's our tagline. Well, ingredients, cookware, tools, all of that. Is synchronous with bringing back recipes. So if you're in Cambodia, you bring back peppercorns. If you're in Japan, you bring back knives. So all of that stuff in the store is fully integrated with the content we're offering through the recipes and the articles.

So the two really do go together and our expertise with the content on one side transfers easily to the store. 

I think that makes sense. So if we say This is a Nikiri vegetable knife

from Japan. We can say something intelligent about it because we've actually been there and been to the factory and talked to the person.

So that's what makes the e commerce work is our expertise on the content side transfers easily to the 

e commerce side. 

[00:18:42] Troy: but when you started, you probably thought it would be easier to get those people that, were, Reading your content and using your recipes to go shop for stuff. And I think to some extent

that actually it didn't turn out that way. 

[00:18:54] Chris: Well, we started out with the licensing idea, which was the world's dumbest. You know, when you look, you look at the percentages and everything else, it's 

a terrible 

idea. 

[00:19:02] Troy: What is that? When I went to the, cooking store and I saw 

your meat 

thermometer or whatever, 

is 

[00:19:07] Chris: yeah. the problem with that is you can't control the cost of goods. You can't control the marketing. You just get a 6 percent at the end of the day, unless you're dealing with someone who's selling millions of units. It's just not a way to make money and you can't control your brands.

That's the other problem. So it turns out the way to make money is to create your own products. we also sell other people's products, but the real core of the business is to design and create your own products and have them manufactured at a cost that allows you to spend money on the marketing, which is really essential.

If your margins are good. If you're dealing with a 40 percent cost of goods, you don't have enough leftover to go to Facebook or Instagram or wherever to market the product. So, or Amazon. So you need to be at a 20 percent or lower cost of goods. And you have to have a unique product that really resonates in the 

marketplace.

That 

that's the heart and 

[00:20:00] Troy: in that regard, they really are independent businesses because you do have a component of your model that is, reading your, your content organically, and saying, Hey, it's interesting that I can also get this knife or the spice or something in the store. But really the act of selling those skews is an independent focused effort.

It's, I just think that's really important to clarify. And can you, can you explain that a bit? Like you, there were a bunch of bumps on the road. Like 

it wasn't always 

easy to sell stuff.

[00:20:30] Chris: five years ago, anybody could sell anything on Facebook, it was just a waterfall of sales. the acquisition cost was low. The return on ad spend was high. And about two years ago with the changes and IOS and other things, you know, Facebook crashed and burned because they no longer had data on millions of people and they had fewer pieces of data on each person, which meant that Facebook had a hard time finding lookalikes for your advertising.

we made the mistake of going to, agencies, to place these ads, but the agencies weren't able to give us enough vertical. expertise with our brand to really figure it out. And it also turns out the creative the ads you create are absolutely critical. And those have to be done in house, you can't send those out.

So we eventually hired our own buyers about a year ago. Got really good at the creative part of it. and that business is totally its own business. Facebook is a totally different world than Google. Nothing in common. Google changes monthly. Facebook changed. Facebook just went through a whole bunch of changes two weeks ago.

We're trying to sort out now. So managing that process has nothing to do with the rest of the business. It's its own independent business, and you got to control it from soup to nuts. You can't let it out of your grasp because the difference between a good ad and a great ad is the difference between 5, 000 units a month and 500 

units a month.

It's, 

got to be done well. 

[00:21:54] Alex: and what you're saying, so, so I understand clearly that the actual, content that you create, doesn't really act as that much of a meaningful funnel into the product side of the business. You have this kind of subscription content business, and then this product business, 

and these are two very separate businesses 

with not a lot of overlap 

[00:22:12] Chris: for the 

most part, yes. I mean, creating the content puts us in touch with people and products we see in our travels. So it's a way of opening the door. But in effect, you're correct. 

They're totally 

different. 

[00:22:24] Alex: you must be measuring some, sort of brand affinity that gets created by the content though, right? But I will trust. I will trust 

the product 

more because it is connected to the 

brand, right? 

[00:22:33] Chris: Absolutely. The, the underlying brand, loyalty. is very helpful in the world of e commerce. But running the e commerce is nothing to do with running an information brain. Two totally different businesses and developing those products is really its own 

business. 

[00:22:51] Brian: yeah, it's kind of similar to B2B media models, you know, that's where my experience is and like a lot of B2B media models are events businesses at the end of the day, and the events business and the information content side are kind of different businesses, but they're inextricably linked because they give, an event.

Otherwise,

you're just someone who rents a room in a 

Hilton or 

something. 

[00:23:14] Chris: the Atlantic, right? 

[00:23:16] Brian: And so, like, I think the interesting part of what you said is, how do you keep those things inextricably, like, as a brand, you know, together? Because I think a lot of times, mode, we talk about mode on this podcast a lot, and when someone is reading An article, even a recipe, I think we want to think that they're in shopping mode and that's why we see all of the the shopping list.

I just wonder if it's There are two different modes, like just because someone is reading an article on Milk Street doesn't

necessarily mean That, they're in shopping mode,

even if it 

mentions the 

night. 

[00:23:46] Chris: that's an excellent 

point. 

[00:23:48] Troy: Way to go, Brian. 

[00:23:49] Chris: yeah, 

[00:23:49] Brian: Thank you. I, can be quiet for the rest of the time.

[00:23:52] Chris: that, that's enough from you. 

[00:23:55] Brian: I got. Chris. 

[00:23:55] Chris: that's enough. You,

you 

qualify. 

[00:23:57] Brian: two more one liners and then I'm 

out. 

[00:23:59] Chris: I 

mean, if you look at it, we have like thousands of recipes on our site and we will highlight an ingredient you can buy in the store and you click and go to the store.

It turns out that that funnel is not that helpful because when people are cooking a recipe, they're not in shopping mode. You're absolutely right. Usually it's people coming directly to the store, not from a recipe on the content site. But that's where the traffic is. And that is generated. 50 percent of that traffic is generated by paid media, 50 percent by our own in house marketing.

But that transfer from a recipe in cooking mode to shopping mode is weaker than we 

thought. 

[00:24:35] Troy: You know, Chris, it's interesting that, you know, all media, most businesses are based on enterprising folks that find hacks that make them work. And, you know, the longer the hack lasts, you know, hopefully the more time you have to build a moat around your business. And it strikes me that you just described one.

around pulling all the costs out of a subscription publication so that it could, you know, that it delivered on a brand promise, but made money at the same time. And there was another part of your business that was really interesting, which was you found PBS to be the brand builder and the top of funnel kind of activator.

how has that changed now? How do you see that challenge as, you know, streaming comes on and, cable, you know, evaporates and media fragments and how do you manage brand building today versus, you know, when the show was reaching, I think America's test kitchen at the time was what hitting 6 million people a 

week or something like that

[00:25:27] Chris: No, we were hitting 1. 8 million. I know people a week, something like that. Milk Street does a million a week. I mean, 10 years ago, everyone was saying PBS is dead. It's over. it's for 65 year olds, which is actually true. But they're more 65 year olds every day, oddly enough. So I said 10 years ago.

No, I said PBS is one of the most powerful brands in America. The worst marketed Underdeveloped best brand ever because it's it's one of the other than ESPN, for example, it's one of the only destination, brands on television, television is not destination. It's streaming now. People will turn on public television, leave it on all day.

So we 

get 

a 

[00:26:10] Troy: where people in Vermont do that or where, where do 

they do that? 

[00:26:13] Chris: well, you have to be over 60. First of all, let's just be clear. but, we get I get a million viewers a 

week. Do you compare that to any cable channel or anything else in a million viewers a week? 

It's a lot of viewers. 

So yeah, so has that gone down a little bit? Uh, not much. It's been pretty steady year after year, and we get those viewers and they come to the website for the recipes.

and it continues to be a top of funnel. The difference is, of course, we have lots of other ways of getting top of funnel, but that audience is extremely loyal. it also adds Authenticity and a credibility to the brand because we're on public television. So there's a lot of trust there. And yeah, they're older, but I'm happy to have a 62 year old who's got a lot of money, watch my show and whatever.

I don't care about age. It doesn't matter to me. I just care about whether they like to cook. I think it's one of the least understood undervalued brands in the media world is public 

television. I love it. 

[00:27:16] Troy: But at the same time, you had the team had to kind of learn the vocabulary of social media and Instagram in particular. you guys, I think, started to get really good at two years, maybe a year ago. Did you have any observations about what worked in that medium that you kind of carry around now? 

[00:27:33] Chris: Well, 10 years 

ago, I famously said something like who needs social media? I thought it was a waste 

of time. So I 

[00:27:40] Alex: Well, you are really prescient because it totally is a waste of time.

[00:27:46] Chris: thank you. It may be a waste of time, but but from a business point of view, it's not. I mean, the things that are critical. You guys know this is point of view.

You need a very clear point of view. Thank you. Two, you have to come up with something that in 60 seconds tells a memorable story and three, the type of recipe that you have, the right recipe will deliver 100 times more traffic than the recipe that's not right. not about how many recipes you create, it's finding just the right one.

Like we've had recipes here where. The video will do millions of views and we'll get thousands of people showing up for the recipe on their website. An average recipe might be a tiny fraction of that. So getting really good at finding the little nut, the little thing that catches your attention within the recipe, is really critical. And how you position the recipe and the setup. it's like doing a podcast in 60 seconds. You gotta have a five second hook. You gotta have something intriguing. It's got to be visually compelling, and it's got to deliver something you want by the end of the 

60 seconds. 

[00:28:51] Brian: So when you start, when you started in 2000, 2016, right, that was right when like pasty was really taking off, right? So how did you, and maybe you've just been doing it for a long time, so you don't get pulled because I saw so many people in that era get what I would call Buzzfeed envy and everyone Buzzfeed became the R and D lab of.

pretty much the digital media industry. When BuzzFeed would do something, everyone would copy it. Now it's the New York Times, but, did you not get pulled into the, I think it was called Hands and Pans, because it, pretty soon all of the food videos look the same, to me at least, on,

Facebook and Instagram. 

[00:29:28] Chris: Yeah, if you start going down that road of copying what's successful, you might as well just give up. I mean, that's not going to work because, as you know, on Instagram, for example, things have a shelf life of three or four months. Then there's the next iteration. So all you can do is go back to your core brand.

Values like Adam's family values. Go back to your core values and figure out what's going to work within the context of what you are offering people that's distinctive. I mean, the first rule of media has to be deliver something nobody else is delivering because in a world that went from finite to infinite, if you are not offering something absolutely unique, you're just not going to survive.

I mean, the New York Times is a good example of simply doing it better but. There are very few examples like that. So in our case, is it we're going to put on Instagram or Facebook that is totally distinctive and you can't find somewhere else? That's the first question we have to ask because otherwise you're just in a copycat situation and that 

never ends 

well. 

[00:30:30] Brian: Yeah, but that's the, I think that's like the big theme of this podcast in some ways is the people versus algorithms because like the algorithm, there's a reason that all the YouTube videos look alike, there's the reason that every sort of thumbnail is surprise guy face, like, because the algorithm is pushing that because when you get into optimization and you're following the data, the data clearly shows is showing everyone the direction to go in.

And it's, it's interesting as, as the algorithms have been, Okay. Deployed in order to sort out like content and needed function. It's created actually not more

diversity, but almost like a lot of sameness to 

me.

[00:31:06] Chris: Well, go back to, 40 years ago. The algorithm in the magazine business was generate volume so you could generate more advertising revenue. so I did the opposite, which in the long run was, it turns out the right thing to do. But you have to almost do the opposite all the time.

Because you're never gonna survive in a me too environment, because the choices are infinite. It goes back to the finite infinite, you know, magazines were monopolies, right? At Hearst. These were all monopolies. There were a handful of magazines. It cost 10 million to launch a magazine.

The buried entry was too high. Now, Now, we're an infinite universe. The buried entry is 10 bucks, and anybody can do it. So the only way to survive in that is to stay. aligned with your core and do things that are unique that nobody else can offer and screw the algorithm because you're just going to end up doing what everybody else does.

I mean, the chances of being successful in a copycat algorithm mode are almost zero 

[00:32:06] Troy: Well, maybe certainly long term, but I think maybe that should be the title of the episode. Brian, 

screw the algorithm. 

[00:32:12] Brian: already made note of that, Troy. 

[00:32:13] Alex: on that, I think just about going against the grain. To me, it seems Cooking is really personality based and it always has been and the algorithm loves personalities. So a lot of the cooking content I get exposed to food and the recipe seems to take a nearly a backseat. It's kind of setting to the personality.

A lot of the stuff that. 

Bon Appetit was doing was very personality driven. I don't, and I don't think 90 percent of the audience ever made the food that was on there, but I remember watching America's test kitchen because I wanted to know how to make a pie. but it seems like, you're going against that.

And while I see personality and definitely yours, you know, on milk street. you're fighting against that and maybe building a brand that is about the food. Are you noticing that, the YouTubes and, the Googles and, and wherever you exist is deprioritizing that type of content over surprise face, look at this weird hot wing I did, because you get put into the food category either way, as people search for things. how do you do search? How do you do, how do you get

yourself up there? 

[00:33:17] Chris: I think it's the wrong way of thinking about it. I think what you have to think about is 10 years from now. Are you going to still be around? And what is the way to get what's the path that's going to Give you the most success over a long period of time. So if all I'm worried about right now is optimizing my rankings, on YouTube and going for personality based content unless you have a strong, let's say, advertising proposition and you can monetize that quickly and you're happy to take a two or three year timeframe and monetize that and then get out.

That's okay. But if you're a brand like mine, where we have lots of other parts, a lot of other components, this is just one of them. The question is, what's going to serve the whole brand over a long period of time best? And so, yeah, if I do a video, I'm much more likely to get a lot of views than anybody else at the company.

And when I do, when I tell people they don't know shit about using garlic. You know, I get 10 million views because people love to get pissed off at me. 

[00:34:16] Brian: Wait, what is it? I, I use a lot of garlic. Am I, what is,

[00:34:19] Chris: you're an 

asshole. I'm 

sorry. You're 

[00:34:21] Brian: oh shit. 

Did Troy tell you that?

[00:34:24] Chris: yeah, that's that a need to know 

basis. 

[00:34:27] Troy: Hmm. No, but just quickly, just a little sort of, for a moment, why, what's the problem with garlic? Chris? Cause I know you, when you do these 

contrarian things, people love them, 

how to cook eggs 

[00:34:38] Chris: Well, in Italy, in Italy, you 

never eat anything that's garlicky. I'm sorry. And the reason is, they'll take a clove or two of garlic, put it in the oil at the beginning. When it browns, they take it out and throw the garlic away. And now they have oil slightly infused with the flavor of garlic. Anybody who cooks with a lot of garlicky food, you invite somebody over in Italy, they'll never come back again because for them too much garlic is anathema.

Now there are other cultures, I was just in Romania where they like garlic, yeah, other cultures like it. But the fact of the matter is Italian food is where a lot of people get their garlic hit from. In Italy, it's just a component that's supposed to be an idea. It's a hint. it's a suggestion of garlic, that's how you should use garlic, because otherwise it overpowers all the other flavors.

And that's not the point. 

[00:35:29] Troy: Perfect. And back to the show.

[00:35:32] Alex: just back to your answer, it was a little bit of a setup for me because my big critique of media companies has been that, there's too much of a knee jerk reaction to whatever these platform asks you to do, right? And then these media companies wonder why they're.

Revenues are dropping where they're losing audience and I've been on both sides and I know exactly how it can be to just be a platform and tell

a bunch of people to jump 

and all of a sudden they're

jumping 

[00:35:56] Chris: I think there's a problem

here. It's you're confusing two separate things. You think about volume of viewers, because you're monetizing that in some way. Volume of viewers has nothing to do with the number of people who actually are attached to your brand long term. You can have five million followers on YouTube and six of those people actually would follow you.

Into a paid content universe. Right? So you have to divorce volume from brand building and understand they're not the same thing 

for a programmatic advertising. Sure. Just because you have 5 million. I know people with 2 million viewers who make 50, 000 a year, you know, have a hard time paying their rent.

So volume. It used to be volume meant something I think with magazine circulation at some point. Even then, even then you could say those were made up numbers. But today, I don't think volume means, it almost means nothing in terms of the core 

brand. Yeah. 

[00:36:54] Alex: Yeah. 

[00:36:54] Troy: Brian, did you have something?

[00:36:56] Brian: Well, the only thing I was going to add, it echoes, I, I had this like executive dinner last week. I will not like, include the sponsor because Troy doesn't like when I slide in my advertising. but, You know, this came up a lot because when you get traffic from a content wreck ad network, a lot of times like just because of your model, it says get as much as you can.

You're never going to see this person ever again. It doesn't really matter. So your incentives are not Aligned long term just because of your model your model is to get as much as you can Put as much mayonnaise on the sandwich until someone complains. You'll never see him again. It

[00:37:28] Alex: And this is where you end up with a trash recipe site that is filled with ads.

[00:37:33] Brian: It's why food sucks at like the all inclusive resorts. Like there's no incentives for the food to be any good.

[00:37:39] Troy: you can tell them, Brian. It was Terminix that sponsored the deal,

right? 

[00:37:43] Brian: that's fine It's a value add. Thank you, Troy

[00:37:47] Troy: Yeah. okay, Chris. So here's the thing. how old is milk street

now? years, something like 

that. 

[00:37:53] Chris: years. 

Yeah. 

[00:37:54] Troy: Seven 

years. 

there's a bunch of parts of the business. You still make a TV show. You make one of the most popular food podcasts in the country. I would encourage everyone to listen to it.

It's amazing. you have a, subscription media business, correct? You have a cooking school and then you have, an e commerce business. That's much more than just selling somebody's olive oil or someone's spices, like you're designing knives, you're manufacturing knives, you're buying them, you're putting them in a warehouse and you're sending them out to people. And you're looking for the connections between all those things to try to, to get enough cash out of a consumer where you're not completely put underwater by the

acquisition costs on a, commerce 

sale, which is lethal. 

[00:38:35] Chris: It's interesting. you didn't 

mention anything about 

print 

[00:38:38] Troy: Oh, you got a magazine, right? I love the magazine and books. I'm sorry. So six year journey to get to the question. What's been the hardest part of it this time? Cause I'm sure it was hard last time. Like, what's been hard, what were your sort of realizations about, how value is created in this wave?

So it seems to me that a lot of things are the same brand quality, long term view, Content integrity, 

all of that. But what's, what's different now? 

[00:39:06] Chris: it's the marketing really. Because if you go back to 1980, At that time in the 80s, I was able to build a brand very quickly in the 90s using direct mail marketing, right? I'd mail 8 or 10 million pieces a year, generate a quarter million new customers over the course of a year. And that was a very predictable business.

and you only had to mail three or four times a year. So, 

it was a 

[00:39:31] Troy: But today you built, you build brand through advertising. I would argue

[00:39:34] Chris: I do what? 

[00:39:35] Troy: you build brand through

advertising as well. You know, 

just a different kind of advertising. 

[00:39:39] Chris: But figuring out the digital world of advertising, both for the store and for the memberships, has been, you know, from building that from ground zero to understand that business, The good thing about that business is it does have leverage when you get it right, not infinite leverage, but there's leverage, unlike direct mail, which was a very Hmm. The range was relatively small and how much volume you could do a year. The problem is every week. It's different or every month. It's different. So you're constantly having to rethink rethink your creative.

Rethink your offer. Rethink how you deal with Facebook and Instagram and all those other places. So managing that is 10 times more difficult than managing a direct mail campaign, which is. Like, falling out of bed. It's really simple. And then also, as Troy said, all that advertising is a brand promotion as well.

It's not just selling a product. So you have to think about what you're doing in a way build your brand, because people see you on Facebook or wherever. At the same time, it's a direct response vehicle to sell a product. So you're doing two things at once, and you've got to think about those two things together but also separately.

[00:40:46] Troy: Yeah. 

[00:40:46] Chris: the hardest part.

[00:40:47] Troy: But unit cost management to me was a big realization for you, Chris, because you know, the way I grew up in the media business, whenever we got an insertion order, it was always money that was dropping at The bottom line, right. We had already paid for the product.

So all that money was, good. Now, when you sell a knife that has 30 of advertising costs associated with it, as well as, 20 or 30 of product costs, is this a different mindset around how you make

money in the commerce world, completely 

different? 

[00:41:19] Chris: Well, let's be 

really clear. An information business with a paywall is the world's best business because you have no cost of goods. You've already paid for the content. You put it behind a paywall, and it's an 85 percent margin business going forward. And as long as you can get the volume, It's just a fabulous business e commerce is a hellish business by comparison because your product cost you have managing the warehouse.

You have shipping costs. You have very difficult advertising environment where you have to manage that all the time. And so you end up with a much lower margin. The two things about it that make it worthwhile is it fills the top of your funnel that we do half a million sessions a month in the store. If you're going to find a new customer, it's easier to find someone to buy it.

A 20 jar of spices or garlic confit or whatever than it is to take a 70 membership, right? So it fills your top of funnel and it has leverage because if you get it right, you can generate a lot of volume. So 

it's lower margin. 

[00:42:20] Troy: is, an important insight, folks. I think people might misunderstand. That's so important that basically a well functioning commerce business is your top of funnel business because it

pays for your advertising,

[00:42:33] Chris: Yeah, and it gets people into the funnel where as they get more and more committed to your business, to your product, to your brand. They eventually would become a member of that brand, but the members at the bottom of the funnel, not at the top. It used to be the member was the only thing I had to sell, so there was there was no top of funnel and bottom of funnel.

Now I can take a 10 or 20 product at the top of the funnel and end up with an 80 member at the bottom of the funnel. But that person is going to have to have six or seven interactions with me to get to the point they trust me enough to become a member.

[00:43:07] Brian: Okay. So it's less about like optimizing to be on like the third result for Bulgogi recipe. like, cause that's less likely to, those people are not going to convert. Like if they just got there just because you

happen to rank highly for a 

specific. 

[00:43:22] Chris: Optimizing search unlike some business where that's everything is part of our business, 

but it's it's not the 

driver. 

[00:43:29] Alex: it's so obvious now that I hear you say it, because if you think of other companies, for example, Apple, the service subscription is right at the bottom of the funnel. Because once you're kind of. Into the brand, into the product, you will get a service subscription, but yet you're seeing all these media companies trying to start to subscription at the top of the funnel, you're hearing about, you know, subscription fatigue, you know, you have all these newsletters, that are just simply putting themselves behind the paywall, and not providing a lot of value around it around that.

Right. and so when I heard you say it, it sounded really counterintuitive until I started thinking about non media companies. Doing this, you know, very successfully, right? Subscription is at the

bottom. 

[00:44:09] Troy: a good example. So Chris, I know you got to run, maybe just lastly I have two questions, just sort of fun stuff. do you have a preferred cuisine now that you've tasted foods from all around the world? You travel and do a lot of the research personally. What stood out to you?

Where do you want to go back? What do you want to make tonight?

You do even 

cook. 

[00:44:29] Chris: yeah Yeah, I 

really 

[00:44:32] Brian: It's gonna be a scandal. 

[00:44:33] Chris: I it's all takeout man. 

[00:44:35] Brian: this podcast on the map. 

[00:44:36] Chris: It's all takeout Yeah, I do cook a lot not during the week as I eat all the food in the kitchen during the day but on the weekend It's like saying, which of my kids do I love the most? I'm sorry. 

There's, 

[00:44:46] Troy: Whitney. 

[00:44:48] Chris: well, good point.

there's no answer to that.

I was just in Romania last week. And what you find is little bits and pieces of things. You go like, oh, that's really cool. You know, I could use that. So it's not so 

much a function of 

[00:45:01] Troy: Is the food good in Romania? It doesn't

seem good to me, but what's good about 

Romanian food? 

[00:45:05] Chris: bread slathered with sour cream and cherry preserves. What's not to like? Come on. they make a lot of soups, actually, chorba, which are really good.

So, it's not so much that, it's like finding this here and finding that there, and you bring it back and bring it into your cooking. So it's not so much the recipes themselves, it's what's underneath the recipes, how people think about food. That's the part that gets really interesting, 

so. 

[00:45:30] Troy: And what's your favorite, what product in your store are you most proud of?

What's selling Well and what are you proud of

actually? Yeah, 

[00:45:37] Chris: Well the knives, which are all based on Japanese knives. the Nikiri is their best seller, it's a vegetable knife. 

[00:45:43] Troy: love that 

[00:45:44] Chris: It kind of looks like a Chinese cleaver, but half as deep, two inches deep instead of four, very thin blade slices through fruits and vegetables. That's really been our flagship product, but it's all of the knives because I was in Spain years ago at a knife factory, and I went to their museum, and it turns out the European chef's knife is a dagger. Literally, it's a dagger. It was designed as a dagger. That's what it came out of that history. So they all sell themselves because they're heavy. They have big, thick blades, which are useless for cooking. and so the heavier, more dangerous the knife, the more you charge for it, right? I mean, that's the whole gestalt.

In Japan, it's all about lighter knives, thinner blades. more control. They have dozens of different knives for specific purposes instead of one knife fits all. So, that's really, for me, what's so interesting is that the entire history of the European chest knife is completely 

bogus.

[00:46:40] Alex: I am so, 

[00:46:41] Chris: a 

terrible 

design.

[00:46:43] Alex: I'm so happy to say that. wait, 

Wait, hang on, because this is a, 

this is an issue at my house. I think we have too many kitchen knives that are what I call stabby knives. I don't understand why you need the pointy end. It's a pain in the ass. To clean. And I use all these like 

nigiri 

style. 

[00:46:58] Troy: you're the

token European. 

[00:47:00] Alex: when was the last time you had to stab a piece of food as you were cooking it?

I feel so, validated.

This 

[00:47:05] Brian: Oh. 

[00:47:06] Alex: This

was definitely 

worth it for me. 

[00:47:07] Chris: you can take a European chest knife and put it in your boot, I'd say, and when you walk around to defend 

yourself. 

[00:47:13] Alex: yeah, 

it was a, contact sport. 

[00:47:17] Brian: so... 

[00:47:19] Alex: All right. Well, thanks a lot. 

[00:47:20] Troy: the best, Chris.

[00:47:21] Chris: my 

pleasure. 

Thanks, 

guys.

[00:47:24] Troy: nice to have you. 

[00:47:26] Alex: Thank you. 

[00:47:26] Chris: Take care. 

[00:47:27] Alex: Bye. 

bye. 

[00:47:27] Troy: Thanks.


[00:47:27] guest end
---



[00:47:28] Alex: that was fantastic, man. Wasn't it?

[00:47:31] Troy: well, what was good about that guy's is he's very smart. And, he had like, you know, if you were going to pull singers out, there was like five singers in there, like incredible observations.

[00:47:42] Alex: absolutely.

[00:47:43] Brian: Are you not counting the one about me being an

asshole? That's not one of them, 

[00:47:46] Alex: one here, but we had some,

[00:47:48] Troy: No, that's just character. That's just my favorite is yeah. Your sponsor for your dinner is Terminix, but no,

[00:47:54] Brian: No, I thought, I thought, I thought there were some... I always like those, those kind of insights from, from different sectors. I mean, cause like what he's saying is... It's funny because I think on some levels it's like very basic of, But at the same time it's rare. Meaning, it's basic, like, you have to create something unique, and you can't just be blindly following algorithms, and yet, at the same time, for a period, that was very rare.

It really was. Like, everyone was chasing after the same thing, and I understand the short term pressures, and I think, in some ways, you still see it, and, I think a lot of it is because people don't have a point of view. And don't have the courage to follow a point of view, and it's just safer to follow the data and follow what the algorithms

say to do. 

[00:48:35] Troy: think also that it w two things happen. One is people wanted to grow media businesses at a rate that was maybe unnatural, you know, building fandom person by person takes a long time. And then there was a period of time when we were, I don't know. We we just thought about scaling digital media businesses much more rapidly as being kind of disruptive entities. And to do that, you have to play the game of the

platforms. And so that's where that 

idea I think 

[00:49:02] Alex: everybody had, tech envy. 

[00:49:04] Troy: tech envy and venture 

money. 

[00:49:06] Alex: do you know the amount of, people that, came to visit Airbnb that were from media to see how we were doing things and you're kind of like,

[00:49:16] Brian: Did Axel Springer show 

[00:49:18] Alex: I mean, I'm sure they did at some point, but, 

the, just the economics being completely different.

And you think that if you can kind of figure out the mojo there and everybody got blindsided by the fact that, scale is the business to be in. And the problem is the more you get into the scale business, the more your audience also becomes filled with like bots and all sorts of scams that are just trying to kind of feed off the scale hack, right?

So it was refreshing. I mean, he obviously knows what he's doing.

[00:49:43] Brian: So one of the things that he was saying that has really resonated, I did a podcast that I published today, actually on the rebooting show. it was from one of these like true media media operators in the newsletter space. And it's called 1440. And it's all it's all paid acquisition, right?

And he has a very clear LTV. He knows that each person that he buys as a subscriber that he's going to make five cents per open. it's a 14 person company, media company with over 1 million per employee, which I remember I asked you, Troy, this, like, what, what did you, what was your like revenue per employee?

You're like, we didn't

think about 

that We just thought about, 

[00:50:20] Alex: like, that sounds like tech revenue. 1 million.

[00:50:23] Brian: Yeah, I know it's, I mean, I, obviously it doesn't

scale, et cetera, but he's like, well, if you look at the TAM, 

[00:50:28] Troy: No, but 

a million per is very high.

[00:50:30] Brian: he comes from private equity and I think a lot of times, like there's a lot of advantages to people from different fields coming in.

And I think what we're going to see, particularly the big impact of subscriptions is forcing publishers. It's a force function that you got to think about LTV. Forget about CPM, you gotta think about LTV, and that's a different, I think that's 

[00:50:51] Alex: Troy? Troy saw me say that at a meeting and I know it sounds pretty obvious, but LTV. Is the only thing you should care about. And if you don't have enough data in the beginning, then you should have a target. And then the more data you get, the more clear that target should become. But LTV is the only, if you're measuring anything, that's the only thing you should aim to measure.

There's nothing else.

[00:51:12] Brian: so this major publisher, and we, we do it under Chatham House rules, so I can't, I can't say

which one, 

[00:51:17] Alex: of secrets 

today, Brian. 

[00:51:18] Brian: was talking about like pre roll, no, I know, I know, that's it, well that, that adds a little bit of the intrigue, was talking about how they stopped showing pre roll ads. To subscribers and the reason is the data showed that getting people engaged with video was like one of the top drivers of mitigating churn.

So from an LTV basis, they were actually, it wasn't worth the CPMs that they were getting for video ads, which are the highest CPMs, on the Internet, but it still wasn't worth it because they had a clear LTV and that was pushing them to actually have a better user

experience. 

[00:51:55] Troy: I believe that I had that firsthand experience today when I tried to understand the Uh, actual programmatic model of a weather site, it's just desperation trying to get me to click a play button on video. So, you know, you have this small window of opportunity. What's the temperature? And then trying to get someone to click a

video. 

[00:52:15] Brian: clicks did you, did you

[00:52:17] Troy: Well, but what I found is a 30 second, pharma ad in front of a video that I really don't want to watch that badly. I kind of would watch it, maybe, but I don't want to watch it that badly. It's completely untenable. All it makes me do

is run away. 

[00:52:32] Alex: they're running towards an extinction event, and that's going to be accelerated by AI because the more bullshit, if you're talking about brand loyalty, way to destroy it. You know, good way to destroy it is to like make the experience so miserable that any affinity you might have to the brand is, is quickly destroyed.

And then I have no problem using an AI summarizer to just get all my content, 

[00:52:53] Troy: don't be so mean. Don't be so mean. There's people

whose livelihoods are

attached 

to all this. 

[00:52:58] Alex: start, start doing the job. 

I mean, I'm sorry. Like.

[00:53:01] Brian: Sounds awful.

[00:53:04] Troy: No, it's great. What did you think of Chris Kimball Alex? 

Do you get 

a man crush? 

[00:53:08] Brian: you should 

have a 

[00:53:09] Alex: I like him a lot. 

I used to watch a lot of America's test kitchen and I'm no, you're not close to 60 years old, really? 

[00:53:16] Brian: but I did read Cooks

[00:53:17] Alex: Yeah. I think a lot of that content, I mean, I, I still watch America's test kitchen on YouTube and the current incarnation and a lot of cooking content in general.

I love like personalities like Maddie Matheson and stuff like that, but I will like check out milk street, which hasn't been on my radar until, decided to talk to Chris.

[00:53:34] Brian: Do you know what's a very popular genre on Instagram is, have you ever seen, and it's always guys, they like haul all their kitchen equipment out into like the woods, and they like, they do the same cooking videos, but with a giant cleaver. And I ended up buying the thing. It's like totally worthless. they're always like flipping the onion up in the

[00:53:54] Alex: yeah, it's I think the biggest takeaway I take from this conversation with Chris is that stabby kitchen knives are not that useful. And I was right. Like nobody. I don't understand.

[00:54:05] Troy: By the way, Nakiri, I use it all the time. I love it. It comes in two sizes. It's not expensive, but

[00:54:09] Brian: Maybe we can sell knives.

[00:54:11] Troy: should we move to our final segment?

What's

[00:54:13] Brian: Oh yeah, there's 

more? 

[00:54:14] Alex: you 

have, we should have a good product 

or a view from whatever 

[00:54:17] Brian: I don't have a view from premium economy. 

[00:54:19] Alex: I made 

a fucking jingle. 

for nothing 

[00:54:21] Brian: I flew premium economy down 

here. Oh, it's for, for premium 

economy. I can come up with something on the fly. 

[00:54:26] Alex: bring one to next week, make it, make 

[00:54:28] Brian: Ed bastion is, retreating on his ill thought out plan to, change up sky miles in a cash grab. And then what I liked when he 

came out with, the fact that they're backtracking. 

[00:54:37] Alex: like a unity situation. 

[00:54:39] Brian: Yeah, he said the team's got like a little aggressive. I was like the team's so let me get this straight It's like your entire business. Is this loyalty program? Mr. CEO and all of a sudden you're like, 

hey, what's going on 

here? I got to fix 

[00:54:51] Alex: he really say that? 

[00:54:53] Brian: He really said this

the teams, 

[00:54:54] Alex: That is, a, fireball offense as a CEO to blame your team for it. That's the whole job is

to take all the shit from, from anything.

[00:55:02] Brian: not good. 

[00:55:03] Troy: at least he didn't, you know, cite an individual he

[00:55:05] Alex: true. Yeah. That's 

[00:55:06] Troy: teams, you know,

[00:55:07] Brian: Janice thought that it was a good idea. 

[00:55:10] Troy: Janice, I think he was being inclusive, Alex, and he was referring to all the good work that the people did. And

[00:55:16] Brian: But he acted like he

just, like, showed up from 

vacation, and 

he was like, who did

[00:55:19] Alex: take a bullet for some random 

CEO that just did some.

[00:55:24] Brian: some guy

in Atlanta. 

[00:55:25] Alex: Oh, by the way, speaking of taking bullets for CEOs, did you see that, I trended on threads with a. Reposting a, beautiful video that, Elon posted on Twitter with a ring of fire and the X rotating in the middle.

[00:55:38] Troy: don't have

anything better to do 

than 

make 

[00:55:39] Alex: No, not really. I'm just, I'm 

building my own audience. I'm using my Elon the 

Arrangement Syndrome to, to build an audience. 

[00:55:46] Troy: Elon, guys, he's an exceptional human being, but he's a goofball. And someone sent him a rotating logo that explodes into flames or something. And he posted it on Twitter. They didn't make that. That wasn't made with a brief, I

can 

guarantee you that. Someone sent it 

[00:56:03] Brian: Some meme lord

15 year old in 

[00:56:06] Alex: Yeah, yeah, yeah, 

[00:56:06] Brian: it. 

[00:56:06] Alex: sure. who's, a 

self proclaimed Tesla fan and loyalist. 

[00:56:11] Troy: just 

like you. 

[00:56:12] Alex: I mean, I want everything he's ever made. Like I'm not like,

[00:56:14] Troy: it's the question, you know, does

[00:56:17] Alex: my question is, is, I think he's shown, he's had these kinds of events where he's shown a certain type of taste. I don't want to say a lack of taste, but he has a very specific taste. And I wonder how much taste, it was just an interesting question. Maybe we can do an episode about it.

How much taste is important in leadership and how taste actually, gets applied to the company you run. 

[00:56:39] Brian: I don't think the word is taste. It's sensibility. What he lacks is a sensibility. Like he does not, like, Trump does not have taste. But Trump has sensibility. And I know people hate to hear that. But he has a sensibility of like what will resonate. He's 

been way ahead on social media. So many different things about where people are that as well.

That's why I moved to Florida mostly, just to be closer to the great man. you know, I think that what Elon does, I'm calling him Elon Musk, what he, lacks is a sensibility. I think that's it. It's just off and call it 

neuro diverse or 

[00:57:11] Alex: All right,

we're going to do an episode 

[00:57:12] Brian: sensibility.

[00:57:13] Alex: and sensibility. 

It's going to be amazing. 

and we're all going to wear 

Victorian dresses for 

[00:57:17] Brian: Okay, that's good.

I like that. 

[00:57:19] Troy: Okay. 

That's 

great. 


[00:57:20] good product
---

[00:57:23] Alex: Do you, do you have a good product? 

[00:57:24] Troy: I hadn't thought about like, well, I hadn't thought, you know, I can usually

pull one out. 

[00:57:28] Alex: The shirt, 

[00:57:29] Troy: One thing, you know, my wine friends,

[00:57:32] Brian: Oh no. 

[00:57:33] Troy: I have fancy wine

[00:57:34] Brian: I mean, when you prepare, we get like a grape. So I don't know what... And I'm as again... 

Now I'm in favor of preparation, Troy. 

[00:57:40] Alex: Sparkling water.

[00:57:42] Troy: yeah. 

[00:57:42] Brian: keys. 

[00:57:44] Troy: orange wine? I love orange wine. I find it quaffable, you know, that's skin contact to keep the skin on. So the wine turns kind of orangey, 

but it's, you know, often it. 

[00:57:53] Alex: mimosa. 

[00:57:54] Troy: No, no, no, no, no. It's like, you know, it's, it's better than rosé. 

[00:57:59] Brian: Orange wine? That's known to be bullshit.

[00:58:01] Troy: no, no, no. It's a type of wine made from white grape varieties and they're fermented with their skins.

And apparently the winemaking style is old, old, old, but it's,

popular among fans of natural, natural wines. I 

love it. I think it's great. I mean, obviously it varies by producer, but

it's 

[00:58:18] Alex: right. 

[00:58:18] Troy: You know what 

else I like, Alex? I like perfectly frothed 

milk in my latte. 

[00:58:24] Alex: well, I'm lactose intolerant, so that means nothing to me.

[00:58:27] Troy: You know what I hate in my coffee is almond milk

[00:58:30] Alex: Oh,

[00:58:31] Troy: because it doesn't, you can't

froth it. 

[00:58:33] Alex: yeah, I hate hair in my coffee.

[00:58:36] Troy: You have a lot of

it. Yeah. 

[00:58:38] Alex: a lot of it right now, so when you have a beard like mine, you'll sometimes find hair in your coffee. 

this is probably where we should wrap it up.

[00:58:44] Brian: Yeah, 

[00:58:46] Alex: Yeah,


[00:58:46] outro
---

[00:58:47] Brian: I thought it was a good

episode. 

[00:58:48] Troy: I think the best product was a little 

flat 

this week.

[00:58:51] Brian: little flat? 

[00:58:51] Alex: I mean, you 

you 

[00:58:52] Brian: Good luck, Vanya. 

[00:58:53] Alex: exactly. You didn't do anything for that one. 

[00:58:55] Brian: that was good. I think we'll keep it, I think we'll keep improving with with the guests. 

[00:58:59] Troy: Wait, I'll get the 

guests. I'll write the 

questions and I'll, 

come up with best product. 

[00:59:03] Brian: Troy, you're finally 

[00:59:03] Alex: yeah. 

you're

starting 

to 

pull your weight. That's good. Well, audience is growing. And so please. Rate and review us on iTunes. It does help with the algorithm. Follow me on threads at 

Alexoid, 

[00:59:14] Brian: Is that true?

I, don't think it's 

true. 

[00:59:16] Alex: from, 

[00:59:16] Brian: dislike it for

my ego. 

I mean, unless it's, calls me an 

[00:59:19] Alex: we also wanted for that ego, 

we thank our fans and everybody sharing and, reviewing. you're in media. Stop being so shy about promoting yourself. What the fuck's going 

on, 

[00:59:28] Brian: I'm just being realistic. 

[00:59:30] Alex: really? 

[00:59:30] Troy: Yeah. fans.

implies the level of loyalty that We 

[00:59:33] Alex: we have fans. 

Let me tell you, it's 

[00:59:35] Brian: Alright, 

[00:59:36] Alex: at that. He's 

blushing. Brian's blushing.

Brian, 

you've never had fans before? you don't know what 

[00:59:41] Brian: me? 

[00:59:42] Alex: no, we have fans. 

[00:59:42] Brian: I have tons of fans on LinkedIn. I read the in mails that I get each week,

it would make you 

blush. 

[00:59:49] Alex: I appreciate and love all of you. Thank you for the kind words.

[00:59:51] Troy: It's like that lyric. It's not the band I hate.

It's their fans. 

[00:59:55] Alex: Oh yeah, no, they're, they're terrible people, but Okay. Well, thank you very much guys.

[00:59:58] Brian: at 

Advertising Week next 

[00:59:59] Alex: Sure. And I'll be 

there for sure. For sure. For sure.



