PvA S3E147
===

​


[00:00:01] Open
---

[00:00:01] Brian: Let me ask you a question. When do you eat ice cream?

[00:00:03] Troy: I think it's better earlier so your body has time to process it,

[00:00:07] Brian: Yeah, I always thought of as a thought of ice cream as a dessert. I would never eat it during the day, but Italians eat ice cream like all the time in the afternoon. 

[00:00:15] Troy: I think like a, on a warm afternoon, a nice gelato is a good thing, right?

[00:00:20] Brian: Yeah, no, I'm into it. I'm into it. 

​


[00:00:31] Welcome
---

[00:00:31] Brian: Welcome everyone to People Versus Algorithms. A show about detecting patterns in media, technology, AI culture, all of it. joined 

[00:00:42] Troy: We're gonna

dispense with the read the NPR style read at the beginning per the user feedback.

[00:00:48] Brian: Oh, well I did

[00:00:49] Troy: I was insist last week, if anybody noticed, there was a nice little sort of intro essay from Brian

[00:00:54] Brian: If anyone else was offended and didn't wanna, and didn't wanna, I, it was, look, it was a very nice note. the gentleman called, called it a book report. I dunno if that was too nice. I thought of it as more of an essay. Thank you. but, that's okay. look, I think. We can do both. Maybe I'll just shorten it.

Maybe we'll just get right into it. normally we are joined by Alex Schleifer. Alex is not as committed as me, so he is away and he's not doing the podcast. And anonymous banker was gonna come, but, I didn't change the calendar invitation, so sorry, AB that was absolutely not, on purpose. So it's just me and you, Troy.

That was my plan all

[00:01:39] Troy: Done this before. I think we can pull it off.


[00:01:41] Summer Stories
---

[00:01:41] Brian: Yeah. So I wanna start with a couple of of summer stories. Do you know the summer story is a genre we used to call, there was Friday stories, which are, you know, you don't wanna drop something that on a Friday at least. That was the thinking, at least, for us. You don't wanna drop something on a Friday that could hold till a Monday because you know, people were checked out on a Friday summer in August.

Or you got no shot, but you can, you can, that's a good time for summer stories, they're usually a little bit of like cotton candy, the journalism version of like a summer movie, which I don't know if it exists anymore. The summer blockbuster probably doesn't. but there's a couple of media summer stories and since Alex is not here, to talk to.

Point out that, the companies are pointless or whatever, we can, we can talk about 'em a little bit. 


[00:02:30] Food 52
---

[00:02:32] Brian: One was, I found this very, entertaining. it was a great New York, magazine story, by Charlotte Klein, who is a really good media reporter. I don't know if you, she used to be at Vanity Fair and she, she writes some reliable bangers, I gotta say.

so kudos to Charlotte Klein. She's a good one. It's a little, it's a little old, honestly, but, you know, it's new to me. And every, everyone else who read it, it got bounced around a lot. I got senate a few times and it was basically that food 50 two's content, studio head, Shannon Muldoon, was pulling the least sophisticated grift possible by just faking, expenses.

She was leading basically a, 

[00:03:12] Troy: where? Where was, where did you say that story was from? I thought it was from the cut.

[00:03:16] Brian: yeah, it's New York.

[00:03:17] Troy: Okay. I thought you said New York Times. I apologize. 

[00:03:19] Brian: Not New York Times. New York magazine. I mean the cut, whatever. It's the there. It's all this, it's all New York to me,

[00:03:25] Troy: yeah, I mean, that was great. It was a great story.

[00:03:27] Brian: It was a great story. And basically she was just, this, this woman was, you know, not just, you know, padding expense reports to the tune of like $270,000 with personal, expenditures, but was sort of flaunting it by leading a influencer esque lifestyle.

Posting all of her exotic vacations and whatnot Instagram for everyone to see. this is a fun story. but you know, to me behind it is I don't want to throw too many people under the bus. You just can't have that in a well run company. I mean, this is not a sophisticated fraud and to me it is a little bit of a testament that some of these companies, are simply poorly run.

Am I wrong here, Troy? I.

[00:04:11] Troy: Well, I think the circumstances here are worth noting. It, it does feel like someone wasn't watching the till at the coffee shop and they did have, over at food 52 some turnover in the senior ranks. So, you know, there, there was a rush of of of

[00:04:30] Brian: It was from 2021 to 2023.

[00:04:33] Troy: There was a, the rush of venture money into the company, like a lot of it,

[00:04:37] Brian: They were valued at $300 million in 2021.

[00:04:40] Troy: on the back of.

I would say it started with Amanda's real gift for kind of community oriented food writing. She's really good at that. Amanda Hesser, who was the founder of Food 52, along with, I can't remember who, what her partner's name was, and, Merrill, they had a nice little thing going where.

They had community source recipes, they would surface the best of them. There was a real community. There were, my wife for example, was a, was a food 52 loyalist. And then they thought that the promise in the business model would come from selling things, not subscriptions, but products. So they started in auspiciously with, an apron and a cutting board and a couple of other items.

And, turnin took notice, liked the media thesis, connected to commerce, and plowed a bunch of money into it. with that money, they acquired a couple of things. They, wanted to mature management. They bought Schoolhouse Electric, they bought, that Danish sort of teeth. Dsk design company. And then they hired this senior executive William Sonoma named Alex, who I know a good, decent guy.

And, you know, Alex was kind of focused on making it a real retail company. You know, building out a line of furniture, creating 

[00:06:05] Brian: is Alex Bellows, by the way. I'm doing the podcast host thing quite a 

[00:06:09] Troy: Yeah. Thank you Brian.you know, I think there was some tension between the new vision and the old one. Amanda stuck around and they spent a lot of money, and it was one of those stories where they spent a lot of money.

what, what felt like easy money because, it was, kind of richly funded and, they had huge ambitions, right? Like they wanted to be, you know, a, a kind of home.retail company in the biggest of ways, meaning they would source, design, create everything from cutting boards to to furniture. they bought the lighting company, which primarily a lighting company.

Schoolhouse Electric now is a furniture company as well, and they created a really big kind of e-commerce marketplace.then the reality of running a media business in a, in a, in a retail business kind of hit the company, which was, you know, the complexity of sourcing and manufacturing and inventory management and cash management and affordably selling these products against.

the difficult challenge of, you know, selling low margin products in a direct to consumer digital business. And then Alex split and they hired Erica and through all of that,

[00:07:30] Brian: Erica Baden, former CEO of Barstool

[00:07:33] Troy: correct. And through all that, you know, people were, you know, they had that brand studio and there was opportunities for expense fraud.

[00:07:42] Brian: But tell people, is it hard to pull this off? Would you have caught it?

[00:07:47] Troy: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Your finance team would catch it, for

[00:07:50] Brian: Well, I don't know how I, 

[00:07:51] Troy: That's a lot of money. I mean, listen, 

[00:07:54] Brian: this is

not Google. It's food 52. 

[00:07:57] Troy: but it's 

[00:07:57] Brian: it's 

a small 

[00:07:58] Troy: like she, she, she submitted an inflated expense report. What she did is coded expenses to, you know, advertising projects or brand studio projects that. became part of the cost structure of doing branded content for clients, right?

So you do a hundred thousand dollars video production and there's, you know, 30, 30, $40,000 of, of hard costs against it. And that was the cover for expense fraud. And so, you know, I see this all the time, by the way, not, not the fraud part, but you know, one of the markings of traditional media or of of modern or digital media business is a shift from.

Selling what used to be a great business, which is impressions that you've earned on your own platforms, like your web impressions or your email impressions or whatever, where every dollar is kind of marginal profit to selling branded content on third party platforms where. You have a lot of expense in the form of creating the content, essentially creating the commercials for advertisers and distribution expense because you're buying paid impressions against those posts.

And so what happens in these companies is you trade really high margin,ad programs for. Much lower margin ad programs. And if you're not careful, and this was like I was psychotic about this at hers, if you're not careful in pricing those correctly and managing the time you spend against them, uh, you get massive

internal, you get massive margin, erosion.

Now, the, the, the real issue as well is in agencies, you know, the, the old formula in agencies was. Manage your hourly rate and manage your employee utilization against, a, a practice of tracking every hour. And so in the old days, if you could get 2 75 average billable rate and 80% average utilization.

Across your, your, your agency, you could make a lot of money. Those are the two metrics that mattered the most, right? That the people on your payroll were utilized against paying projects and that those paying projects had a, you know, had a decent hourly rate. Now the problem in media companies is no one measures their time against anything, right?

So you could have a studio filled with lots of people that are doing good work on a branded content project, where essentially what you're doing is making the commercial that the agency used to do and trafficking it and, and you know, measuring it and managing the customer and all of that. None of those hours are paid for.

You're just like, these are people that work in our company. We don't look at it like an agency where it's time for hire, and then what you get is you've, you've swapped out. The really good revenue for really kind of mediocre revenue. And suddenly your 20 to 25% media business goes to a seven or eight or 10% media business.

And so yeah, it's, it's a new muscle inside of companies and there's a bigger story. So there, there's this sort of shift to agency at, at, at media companies that I think is, is, is a difficult transition. And then. The, the, the, the story at, at Food 52 is, is a broader one, which is retail Businesses are super complex.

Media businesses are super complex. Complexity plus complexity is typically a bad thing in companies.

[00:11:26] Brian: And it's a different type of complexity, 

[00:11:28] Troy: completely different, different 

[00:11:29] Brian: like warehouses.

And, and the craziest thing to me about this sort of pivot to commerce and real commerce, not the affiliate stuff, was that we already sort of went through this, like Thrillist and Jack Threads was a disaster. And that was a long time ago.

It was like the early two thousands, and it was all because, you know, I remember Ben Laer was like, we didn't have experience running warehouses or anything we like, and yeah, they, they were in like an email newsletter publisher. so a difficult business. Another, media exec. I remember one time when the content studios were the, the hottest thing.

He said, you know, the problem is we're not like agencies where we, we don't have a culture of like firing a bunch of people if we lose an account. He's

like, you know, you have a bunch of people in agencies, you lose an account. Like, you know, you cut a bunch of people, it's just accepted. Like, it's not like, you know, it's just the way things go and, you know, publishers didn't have that muscle, was his his point.

that leads me to another great summer 

[00:12:27] Troy: the, the, just the, The last point on that is like it, how kind of idiotic that. She was sort of, flaunting it on social media and taking her colleagues out for expensive dinners is really shocking.

[00:12:41] Brian: Well, that's what makes it a great summer story. I mean, it's a summer story is all in the details, right? If this was just like some. Minor graft. It wasn't even that much. I mean, real, it's like $270,000 maybe. I media's a lot, but it's not like, you know, the heist of a century or anything like that. but it was the fact that, you know, she was posting about it on Instagram.

I. It got picked up by Daily Mail. It got picked up by the New York Post. and because it was, you know, that's why it was a good story. and, and Charlotte had a great lead. She said that she was,en engaging in Unquiet luxury, which, uh, is, uh. Lovely. 


[00:13:17] Newsette
---

[00:13:17] Brian: there was another, talk about small stakes.

I'm glad Alex isn't here. There was this newsletter company called Newsette, it was one of those, you know, newsletter brands that kind of popped up and said, Hey, we've got, we've got a million subscribers. It's young women. And, you know, and it was one, another one of those brands, like you never heard of them, but you're like, okay, well if you say so.

and it turned out, you know, she was sort of. Making it up a little bit. she really, and, and the fake it till you make it stuff is, it's a slippery slope, I would say. And

[00:13:48] Troy: it's a little bit part of the fabric of the business. You know, my, my classic line about that is everybody lies in media. But, but you can only take it so far.

[00:13:57] Brian: well, what is, what is the line? I mean, Everyone, everyone rounds 

[00:14:01] Troy: is overstated.

The lie is our revenue is bigger than it is. The lie is, you know, people love us, stuff like that.

[00:14:09] Brian: Okay, well, she maybe took it a little too far. you know, she was doubling, her, Or email list. And she, I will give Forbes a lot of credit. They, they, they put a lot of effort into writing, the piece about, the issues here. And of course she was a 30 under 30 honoree. So they have something of flywheel here.

They can honor these young people and then just track them. And, and eventually we've seen time after 

[00:14:36] Troy: I mean 

[00:14:36] Brian: enough of them.

[00:14:37] Troy: on that list is a good idea.

[00:14:40] Brian: You know, like anytime you're just like short on a story, just, just examine the Forbes 30 under 30 list. to me, like if there was like a larger point in this, it's. There's a lot of, of this kind of media line that that moved into like email newsletters because it's impossible to check.

You're, you're, there's no comScore for newsletters. You can say you have a million subscribers and you have 500,000, you can buy subscribers for under a a dollar. you know, sweepstakes and co-reg used to be, the tricks of the trade. and, you know, ultimately. A lot, a lot of this area is inflated. And

[00:15:18] Troy: the name of the guy that was recently pardoned? 

[00:15:20] Brian: Carlos Watson, 

[00:15:21] Troy: yeah, car Carlos, really set

[00:15:23] Brian: well he made a great point. His defense was, wait, what? Are you coming after me? I'm just like, everyone does this stuff.

[00:15:29] Troy: yeah, it was the phone call with Goldman or

[00:15:32] Brian: Well, yeah, that was a little too much. That's the thing when you, that's when you get into the territory where the New York Attorney General gets involved, so you don't wanna fake it too much. I think is the big story in media. Anyway, those were both really good stories. 


[00:15:46] GenZ vs AOL
---

[00:15:49] Brian: I also saw something that, uh, shared with you guys that I thought was, was fun.

There was this. TikTok video of kind of a hipster mom with her Gen Z daughter. she was asking her about all of these artifacts of, of life and it, it, it got pretty shocking. It's like one thing when she doesn't know what an eight track is. I'm like, okay, I get that. but they got to a OL.

And she, she guessed that a OL was a sign language, 

which was auspicious is coming off 'cause a OL Finally, they finally 

[00:16:21] Troy: AOL has dropped outta the, the sort of pop culture lexicon at a decade or five to 10 years ago. That doesn't surprise me. Still makes lots of money though.

[00:16:31] Brian: that you don't, that Gen Z doesn't even know what a OL is. She didn't know what a chat room was. That kind of surprised me.

[00:16:38] Troy: Yeah, what I was waiting for, 'cause I did look at a OL,closely was the sort of, oh, we could make this relevant again, narrative, you know, around revitalizing it with a media strategy. And that, that, that idea, I would, I thought it was in, you know, it's clearly in full harvest mode. It, it will never be relevant again.

[00:16:57] Brian: Yeah, yeah. There, there was that brief period of time when Tim Armstrong was running it that a OL was, was gonna do it. They were buying a lot of ad tech assets and, Tim was gonna make the, make the, make banner ads into the new TV commercials. Project Devil, I believe it was called, didn't really

[00:17:15] Troy: Admirable that project actually, but yeah.

[00:17:18] Brian: It was admirable. doomed to fail maybe, but, 

[00:17:21] Troy: Well doomed to fail in that, you know, humans are hardwired to do one thing at a time. The problem with banner advertising, it doesn't matter how big it is, skins have been around for a long time. Right. Is that, you know, getting people to do two things at once is the, is is the, the, the core failing of the 

[00:17:38] Brian: Yeah. Display

advertising has been a disaster. You know, they display advertising 

[00:17:41] Troy: I would say, you know, here's the thing that you're here for, and by the way, here's the thing that you're not interested in on the side. I mean, linear advertising is just so much, so far superior. 

[00:17:50] Brian: I kind of like the idea of the ultra, remember those you had to watch, like you had to watch an a commercial before you, before you got on a

[00:17:59] Troy: Yeah. Almost like paywall alternatives, right. You just trade your, trade your attention 

[00:18:03] Brian: That'll come back. That'll come back. Everything 

comes back.

[00:18:05] Troy: Yeah. That'll come back. That makes sense.


[00:18:07] GPT 5
---

[00:18:07] Brian: The, the, the big more consequential news this week. And I think it'll segue a little bit in, I hope a little bit into, to your topic, which is G BT five came out.

and, this was much heralded upgrade. It's been promised for a long time. AB was on it. He was like texting me big, big, big drops coming tomorrow. and it came out and, It, it really disappointed a lot of people. it pissed off Elon Musk. claims that there is a conspiracy with Apple to, because grok is not ranking at the top of the charts.

but the interesting part was, was how people were really upset that the new GPT five is very factual and is lost a little bit of its, Of its personality in some ways. and you know, the, I think the bigger picture is they're not talking about a GI as much anymore. I have no idea when a GI comes, or, or, or what difference it makes.

Like, I, I personally, when I use chat CBT, it is so far away from, you know, just being accurate in, I'll give it like a document I gave it, I gave it like survey results and it, it got about a third of the numbers wrong, when, when it was asked to summarize it. So they gotta fix a lot of stuff there.

But what's interesting was, was how this parasocial relationship that people have developed with particularly chat GPT, and, I think that's, that's becoming, that's becoming a real issue. Like when we talk about a. AI safety. A lot of people go back to the pay-per-click paperclip example, that you're gonna tell the, the AI to do some task and, and don't let anything stop you or make paperclips.

And it's, it's gonna end up ending the world. But I think the, the really near term danger of this is, this is new social media and these. These chatbots are becoming boyfriends, girlfriends, therapists, and when chat BT changed and they changed the personality, people were upset. 


[00:20:16] Chatbots vs Loneliness
---

[00:20:16] Troy: Well, I, I wrote about this this week because it, it 

[00:20:19] Brian: that's why, that's why I, that's why I brought it up, Troy, 

[00:20:21] Troy: Well, I knew I needed a hook on this thing that I saw on Shelter Island, and it seemed to fit, because you know, this Brian, I have uneven cell service, particularly where I'm located on the island. 

But anyway, so sometimes in the morning I get out in the car and I go get a coffee

[00:20:40] Brian: so I park on the street next to the cell tower that no one ever drives on 'cause it's a dead end. I was on a semi-important phone call, just sitting in my car, talking on the phone, and this guy pulls up and it was a little spooky 'cause it was early in the morning and he pulls up in this big white pickup truck and he throws a rope out of the window and he opens the door, gets out and drops his dog.

[00:21:07] Troy: Sort of unceremoniously on the ground. He leans over, he hooks the rope up to the dog's leash, and then he proceeds to drive down the road and accelerates a little bit, but not so it's uncomfortable for the dog, to walk the dog from the truck. So he was trucking the dog, I guess. I don't know what, what's the term he was?

[00:21:27] Brian: I don't know.

[00:21:28] Troy: But he, he, I guess he couldn't be bothered to like stroll down the road, you know, with the dog. So he just drove the dog around the, the un trafficked dead end street and kind of went to the end of the road, turned around and drove back. And so he walked his dog in his truck and, I thought it was a little psychotic.

the dog seemed happy. the dude was maybe enjoying his own coffee in his truck, but I'm pretty sure that it's not the intended use of the technology. And, you know, it, it just struck me that sometimes technology gets away from us. You know, like we start to use it in ways that we don't expect.

And I connected it to what was going on with AI chatbots. 'cause it, it occurs to me that. So much is going on here in terms of the kind of social changes and, and the changes in software. Not only stuff like, you know. You know, vibe, coding and the like is opening up software development to a broader set of people.

We're gonna see the acceleration of development because it's much easier to do now. It changes, you know, everything like the relationship that we've had for years without sourcing to India. Suddenly those, you know, arbitrage economics change a lot because software development becomes much cheaper, closer to home.

But,There's like a number of things that I would, first of all, there's an article in the FT today. This is a little bit of departure, but there's an article that talks about the scale and we've, we hit on this in the last couple of weeks,

[00:23:00] Brian: I am numb to the numbers. I'm numb. 

[00:23:02] Troy: you know, the, the, the number I have right here, Brian, is, you know, 

over the next, we, we have, Global spending on AI related data infrastructures projected at, 3 trillion over the next three to four years.

[00:23:17] Brian: It seems reasonable.

[00:23:19] Troy: And, and you know, the number that's going around with the hyperscalers is 400 billion, in 2025. And, you know, the article looks at who's financing it, where's the money coming from, because obviously we can see.

You know, we can see the, the, the, the analogy to the overbuilding of pipes that happened in the early two thousands 

[00:23:43] Brian: The railroads is very 

[00:23:44] Troy: down. Took down Nortel and put lots of pressure on Cisco. And it, you know, went from being a, you know, much lauded,infrastructure stock to being kind of, nearly bankrupt.

and then of course once, you know, a lot of money gets invested from third parties, they securitize it, it creates more downstream financial risk. But the, the, the scale of this is enormous and it all pivots on one little thing, which is. How much does this technology change the way we work, both individually and incorporation such that someone is gonna pay for it?

Right? And and a big part of that is like, does it really work? Does it really help us? I mean, clearly there are novel applications. Clearly there's lots of ways that we can see using this, but when the error rates are really high, right? And when. This notion of a GI feels like a bit of a roost to me because you really do, per your comments, see the limits of the technology as it, you know, being better than a stochastic parrot, but like. 

[00:24:45] Brian: I was asking ab I'm like, am I using this wrong? i, I wish, I wish AB was here. They, they are a, an AI maximalist I'm like, okay. But I'm just saying on a daily basis, I just don't see it with, with like, the writing is horrible and that should be the easiest thing for it to do.

It seems like it's getting in some ways worse and it makes errors constantly. 

[00:25:07] Troy: what I thought about. Out this moment when people, just to to kind of recap, there was a lot of chatter in Reddit, like in subreddit around ai, boyfriends, AI girlfriends, and people that had developed deep parasocial relationships with the technology is that this new chapter exists kind of at the far end of this kind of long, slippery.

Continuum, like what seems like decades of codependent relationships between humans and technology. Right. And so like, and if we reflect on it now, I think we can see that like social networks, you know, have reduced direct human connection. To like these dopamine hits that we get off of,Instagram.

Google Maps I think is sort of eating away at our ability to, to, to understand the spaces we occupy. Spotify tells us what to listen to. Amazon tells us what to buy. Netflix kind of dulls critical opinion and personal taste. All of this is the consequence of the algorithm, right? Even. Even down to memory, you know, our cell phones in the clouds help us remember things.

And so now what we have is this emotional connection, right? And, and, and that I think is. Is is really interesting and, and there's, there's reason to worry that, I don't know if you listen to this plain English podcast this week, and I think it was entitled, the Modern World is Changing America's Personality for the Worse.

And it really documents this kind of lapse into like, that we're less ex extroverted, less conscientious, more neurotic. And, and all of this is really about us isolating ourselves and having spending more and more time. Outside of, you know, social connections and the, the bonds of, of, of our, of our community.

And I think, you know, there's reason to, to be concerned. And so it, the other part of it is that I thought, oh my God, it wasn't the functionality of GPT five. I mean, GPT five was, was, I think, an a disappointment because Sam and Co, Sam Altman and CO had set it up to be. A GI, right? Like we were expecting something profound, something that, that was sort of self-learning, something that had real insight and wasn't just kind of comparative in its output or, and it, it doesn't feel like it's that big a step ahead of four, but it was what, what shocked people was that the design dimension of personality. That feels like a new paradigm in product design and software design that we need to focus on. Not just like, remember how people used to freak out if we changed the buttons on, on a website or we changed, you know, where you find a section or how you navigated Amazon or whatever. Like those were, you know, obviously interface dependencies that people had become.

Accustomed to and

[00:28:09] Brian: I mean, the newsfeed was like a big deal. Like 

[00:28:12] Troy: Right? So people hated it when you changed that. Now we're not changing interface 'cause it is a chat interface after all. We're changing personality and that really freaked people out. And so we have this, you know, new thing where machines are much more than functional companion, you know, or you know, functional tools.

They're emotional companions. And what is the responsibility of a company when an individual becomes like dependent on your software at a level of emotional support, what is your responsibility to manage that in terms of backward compatibility? It's pretty bizarre, right?

[00:28:56] Brian: yeah, but it seems like they. Look to dial back that because, you know, people get into these loops with, and I see how it can happen. Like I've uploaded a couple of years of journals in there and I'm, I believe I'm self-aware enough to know it pulls, it tries to pull you deeper into yourself, and it presents itself as a neutral third party, but it's not a neutral third party.

It's just parroting back at you. know, your own sort of biases and thoughts. It's, but. The way it presents is different and that's intentional and they, they've made these things, they've decided to anthropomorphize them, and they've gone down the exact same path as the social networks with all of the engagement tricks.

You cannot get that thing. I don't care what you do. You cannot get that thing to stop asking you questions. Do you want me to make this into a notion? It keeps asking me. I'm like, what is it with notion, why? 

[00:29:54] Troy: It never asked 

me that. Really, it asks you if you wanna turn it 

[00:29:57] Brian: it constantly asks me if it wants to it to make 

something 

into a

[00:30:01] Troy: should know better.

[00:30:02] Brian: Exactly. and so I think that's gonna, that's a, a major issue and that they sort of neutered it a little bit. And so now it's much more bullet pointy, which I, I prefer. It's like, look. Apparently some people like the Southwest Airline pilot who, who tells the jokes? I just want, I just want the person to, you know, pilot the plane.

I like my robots to be robot-like, you know, that's fine for

[00:30:24] Troy: Well, and the other little dimension of the story is. How eager, the LLM companies are to get government addicted to the tools? Obviously corporations are buying the API, but you know, giving it away. when Sam Altman made the genius decision to give it. To every government department for a dollar a year or whatever it was.

And then, you know, XX AI and anthropic followed suit. And, and Google actually, just gives you a sense of, I don't know if it's desperation or, or ambition, but they want, you know, the government to be really dependent on the technology.

[00:31:07] Brian: Yeah, well, I wanna like, you know, that's, it's the blitz scaling and it is interesting, you know, now these technology companies are so entwined with, with governments. I, I'm just finishing finally the Patrick McGee book, apple in China, and. It's really remarkable to read that now. I mean, you, you kind of have to go back into what, what the world was like in the two thousands, but how involved Apple was in China and inevitably with the government, is, is really, it is a major challenge for that company.

They can't just up and leave China. and. A lot of the technology companies are gonna have to pick a side. You're gonna be an American technology company, you're gonna be an American technology company, and, and a large part of that is the government. I mean, AI is going to be, remember when, like Google would claim that they, they wouldn't sell things to like the military, you know, because 'cause employees would like protest.

It's like, no, they're, they're all going to be entwined with the government and because, and with good reason. I mean, they are the, a critical asset. Our technology dominance is a critical asset, not dominance. I don't think we have dominance, but our technology lead is, is a critical asset in geopolitics today.

And that's a different, that's different than when you're making social apps.

[00:32:28] Troy: Deeper. 

[00:32:28] Brian: different.

[00:32:29] Troy: Yeah. 


[00:32:30] Travel Log: Italy
---

[00:32:30] Brian: Something that I noticed here, in Italy. This is a little travel log. Would you, would you indulge me in a little travel log? I like to go places, as you know, Troy, I like, I try, you know, I'm observant. I like to observe things and travel has become.

[00:32:43] Troy: Well, you observe and then you like to turn it into a narrative.

[00:32:45] Brian: No, I like to ring the towel. And, travel, you know, has become a lot of sameness. You know, you step off the plane a lot of places and it's, a lot of, a lot of things are the same these days. And I think that's just a function of, you know, how commonplace travel has been and the internet, et cetera, flattening everything.

But one of the things I've noticed in, in Italy, I noticed like. All so many grocery stores for these coad, and they were different types of, of grocery stores. You would see

Coad. Coad is the brand. It's not the best brand. Right. Um, 

[00:33:17] Troy: a little like gonad.

[00:33:19] Brian: Yeah. Well, it's a, it's an acronym. I'm not gonna try to pronounce the, Italian for it.

But basically, you know, I, I would notice them in cities, but I would notice them like in villages and they're all over Sicily. 

it is a cooperative. So basically in the 1960s, because big grocery store chains were like coming in, the response, most of the Italian, grocery stores were just mom and pop operations.

So they started a, a national co-op. It now has 3000 independent owners, and they basically took a middle ground. They were like, okay, we 

[00:33:54] Troy: Yeah, it's like home hardware. Home hardware in the us.

[00:33:57] Brian: Yeah, they wanna, we wanna be close to the community. We want to be owners of it, but then we want to have the advantages of scale. So the co-op handles the supply chain branding technology such as it is real estate back office.

But the local owners run, run the stores and they own the co-op. And, I, I found this very charming because it's so not American, 

[00:34:20] Troy: Well, it is in that like car dealerships are kind of like that, right? And like I said, like home hardware is like that. It's a supply cooperative, but the stoner stores are independently run.

[00:34:30] Brian: Is it?

[00:34:32] Troy: Yeah, that's like, that's why your local hardware store looks like it does.

[00:34:36] Brian: Well, we need more of that, and I think publishing

[00:34:39] Troy: what's so great about it? Like I, I like, I'll, I'll give you the benefit.

Are the good, are they good grocery stores? 

[00:34:45] Brian: Yeah, because like you can localize the, the person on the ground, right? The owner is going to know, you know, different parts of Sicily have different, you know, delicacies that they're into. So they stock the things that you can't have a one size fits all approach, particularly in a country with many different, you know, cuisines and gastronomic

[00:35:07] Troy: I actually think the IGA is like that. The IGA on Shelter Island is very tuned to Shelter Island. It's completely different than the iga, you know, in some town in the North Fork. It's very different.

Is there that much cultural differences on, No, but they just put fancy stuff in it.

[00:35:23] Brian: Okay. Fancier stuff. Now, look, there are problems with any sort of cooperative, anyone who has, I've never,been part of like a co-op. I know New York City has co-ops. I was, I would never, get involved in a co-op. But anyone who has been these, these things are very inefficient. There's, there's, there's slow decision making, a lot of, politics and


[00:35:41] Media Co-ops
---

[00:35:41] Troy: But, but this was like some brilliant lead into an a, a a, a monologue on, nobody wants to start a media company anymore.

[00:35:49] Brian: Well, yeah, that's, this is my thing is I think publishing, and I've thought this for, for a while. I was obsessed with Web3 for a little bit because of this. I think that the idea of like the centralized media company, particularly in like publishing is sort of past it's due, right? Like, and what I've noticed is nobody wants to start.

Media companies anymore who have like, run them. And to me I'm like, why is that? Like usually in technology if like, you know, you start another, you're gonna start a company in the same people just leave the field altogether. I don't know. I, I don't think, you know, 

uh,the Mike Guy is now in like healthcare.

but you look at like, you know, Justin and Philip were from Refinery 29. I'm not gonna say what they're working on, but they're working on something totally out, out, out outside of media.

[00:36:34] Troy: S company.

[00:36:35] Brian: Packaged goods company. They don't, they want nothing to do with this field, but it, it really, it struck me when Henry Blott has, he's stuck around in media, right?

But he left, he, he scaled Business Insider. He sold it at a a nine x Right. Revenue of multiple and. He is, he's now on Substack, and this week he, started a podcast as part of Vox, and I did a, I did a podcast with Henry and I was like, is this like, it was a couple months ago, and I asked him if this was like a hobby or if he really wanted, he was like, no, this is like, what I, he goes, I'm just experimenting, but like, this

[00:37:11] Troy: Well, it's like, to be clear, it's a hobby. He, like, he made out like a bandit last time, so he's

[00:37:16] Brian: Well, he made out like a bandit, but he could easily start another media company. He could raise money, he could start a media company, and instead he's going down this different path. but I think that there's a need for a cooperative model because you have, on one end you have flailing and mostly failing legacy institutional models.

And then you've got all of these, these little independent mom and pop, I'm, I'm one of them. 

[00:37:42] Troy: Who's the

cooperative in this analogy, Vox, or is it the platforms that they all sit upon?

[00:37:47] Brian: No, I think something new needs to be created because I think what Vox is doing, and I think it's interesting, is they're trying to, I always say there's, you're between the individual and institutional continuum and everyone has to situate themselves somewhere along there. Puck is somewhere along there, but really they're more institutional.

They just, like, people get to call themselves, partners and, and they get a, a, some, some equity in, but it's not, they, they don't have like true ownership substack, you fully, you fully own, you know. And there needs to be something in between. Now, what Vox is doing, and again, this is like a power law, so there's not many people that are gonna be able to pull it off, but that they have, you know, Kara Swisher and, and Scott Galloway, I've noticed like they're the model right now.

You know, you would rather be Kara Swisher and Scott Galloway, certainly than you would any of these large media companies. 

[00:38:42] Troy: Well, I personally would rather die, but anyway, go on.

[00:38:46] Brian: I don't know. I mean, you know, Scott's very open about like the economics of, of that business, uh, his business and it's really good. 

[00:38:56] Troy: His emotional transparency or fake emotional transparency is really what endears him to people after all the kind of bad banter. Yeah,

[00:39:04] Brian: Is it whatever works, you know, it's a growth hack. So I think that there is a need for this in in publishing where you have a cooperative that takes care of a lot of the infrastructure. That is required for these businesses because substack, you're gonna hit a wall a lot of times and, you're gonna need distribution, you're gonna need sales, you're gonna need marketing.

And I don't think it's just going to be technology platforms. a lot goes into like running a media business, and I think a lot of independent people don't wanna do that. Don't necessarily have the expertise in doing that. And I think more than that, like they don't wanna build a regular media company.

So I think we need a Conad of media. Wrote it a little bit about this today. I don't know, we'll see. We'll see if it ever happens. What do you think?

[00:39:58] Troy: I mean, I think it makes sense. Sense in these sort of, like you said, models where people sit on a continuum between sort of creator and institutional. I think in other cases you still need, you know, like you need to have a scaled media organization. I think it's been interesting, by the way, on the, which we don't spend enough time talking about on the, on the kind of linear side.

How the networks and large cable companies are fighting back around sports rights and saying, in some ways it's very analogous to what it would've been like in a, you know, a print company that had an established brand and a magazine as well as all the digital, like, you know. Paramount gets the rights to UFC for a huge sum of just over a billion a year in a $7 billion contract.

UFC is attracted to the fact that they can be on streaming, they can be on cable, they can be on CBS. And, you know, they get to, to, to, to kind of benefit from the reach of having old and new you know, ESPN's lockup with NFL sort of suggests some of the same, right. They'll have advanced streaming app that you can buy, you know, as a direct to consumer thing.

You, you know, and they'll also be on, on cable television and I think in sports rights, in order to get through those. It's interesting because. The, the, the big tech companies didn't walk away with the contracts here, right? Like Amazon and Netflix 

[00:41:34] Brian: Yeah, that's been much promise, 

[00:41:36] Troy: and

[00:41:36] Brian: Google didn't. I mean, Google took, took the, the NFL rights for Sunday ticket.

[00:41:41] Troy: Sunday ticket. you know, ESPN has kind of, you know, come back in a really admirable way to, to, to, to take a pos, a material piece of the NFL in exchange for an equity position. So, yeah, I mean, I don't know if we would've predicted this, but, the legacy media companies on that side have, have found enough capital to kind of.

At least in this chapter to, fend off the, the rich tech companies.

[00:42:10] Brian: I mean, is that, is that a long term position that they, they can I mean, 'cause 

[00:42:16] Troy: Well, it's long term. So, provided that they add direct subscriptions at a pace that offsets the declining cables. Yeah.

[00:42:26] Brian: Okay. Should we get to good product?


[00:42:28] Good Product
---

​

[00:42:31] Troy: don't 

really have 

no, do you? Yours was, what was it? Ice cream.

[00:42:35] Brian: No, no. I have a good product.

[00:42:37] Troy: great. Thank you. You know what? That's what I love about you, Brian. You're always there

[00:42:40] Brian: I'm always there for you. For better or worse.it's a, it's aperitivo is a great product, great product.aperitivo is. I believe it started in the north of Italy, but now it's throughout Italy. There's a lot of aperitivo going on in Sicily. I'm actually heading out directly after

[00:42:58] Troy: What's the difference between dumb question, between aperitivo and a digestive?

[00:43:04] Brian: No. So in a Pariti, aperitivo is an event. Okay. It happens at sundown. It is the transition from the workday to the nighttime to relaxation. Italians are very good at relaxation. they, I'm not saying they're not hard workers, I'm just saying they're very good at relaxation. And so you have little snacks.

It's a gathering, it's a communal gathering. And I think this can combat the loneliness. And I think we can have a lot of lessons actually from the Italians, when it comes to what we've done with technology to ourselves. Because you go to a per, you go to have a pariti, you'll have classically.

You'll have a spritz, you know, that's when, that's when the spritz has come out. Maybe you'll have an agro, it's a little strong for, for 6:00 PM but maybe you'll have that. 

[00:43:51] Troy: Yeah,

but I've strong. Believe that you should start drinking very early and cut it off early.

[00:43:57] Brian: okay. 

[00:43:58] Troy: I'm a real advocate for like a beer at 11. And if you're with friends, you could maybe hit it hard until the kind of mid-afternoon, but then if you cut it off, 'cause you sleep better, if you drink early, if you drink late, you're guaranteed to have a bad sleep.

[00:44:12] Brian: Well here, in Sicily, it's, it's with sundown. And so you'll go and you, you po they position you to like, you know,

[00:44:22] Troy: Are you getting a bit of a buzz? Are you, is that the goal to, to socialize, but do you get a little

[00:44:26] Brian: no, it's social. It's social. I don't think it's like a, a getting a buzz kind of thing. Maybe you have, you have a glass, they have more wine. you know, because there's more wine in Sicily, but there's wine

[00:44:35] Troy: Is there a lot of other stuff going vapes, you know, weed, mushrooms, 

[00:44:39] Brian: weed. I, no weed that I could tell the, weirdly Europe is, is, is not in into weed like, the US is.

They haven't legalized, I

[00:44:47] Troy: Can you say that with any real knowledge of, of their habits?

[00:44:51] Brian: I mean I, no, but I can say that they have not gone as far culturally because they have not legalized in

[00:44:58] Troy: Well, you can buy cocaine on the street in Portugal legally.

[00:45:02] Brian: I know, but like they haven't legalized anyway. That's what I'm saying. And I don't, when I walk down a European,city Street, I don't smell wafts of marijuana like I do 

[00:45:12] Troy: Right. 

So 

that's the data point. Okay.

[00:45:15] Brian: That is my lived data point. But they have snacks. The thing is, if you, if you do a pariti right, you can, it's a full dinner really. they got little, they got little pieces of pizza, you 

[00:45:27] Troy: I stay up later though, right? Like you, you do. You find you're staying up a lot later.

[00:45:32] Brian: No, I go to bed early. I, I wake up super early here. to go running. So it's great. but that's because you start, you start, you do, you do do a pair tiva, and then you just like go home.

But what one of the, the great things about it is, it's an all generation thing. And again, this gets back to the loneliness thing. Like one of the things that I notice in, in Europe in general with particularly, here in Italy, is that there isn't this sort of segregation by age. That you have like, it's not like there's just like quote unquote young people places and whatnot.

There's all generations at like at places and a lot of times together. You know, I think it's like really nice to see here that you'll go to have like aperitivo and there will be, you know, up to three generations, like 

[00:46:14] Troy: I love it. I love it when there's kids running around. 

it better.

[00:46:18] Brian: we need aperitivo in the United States. 

[00:46:21] Troy: save Brian. Very good.

[00:46:22] Brian: Yeah, no problem. I'm gonna get to aperitivo right now.


[00:46:26] Outro
---

[00:46:26] Troy: That's it for this episode of people versus algorithms where each week we uncover patterns shaping media culture and technology. Big thanks as always to our producer, Vanja Arsenov. She always makes us a little clearer and more understandable and we appreciate her very, very much. If you're enjoying these conversations, we'd love for you to leave us a review.

It helps us get the word out and keeps our community growing. Remember, you can find People vs. Algorithms on Apple Podcasts, on Spotify, and now on YouTube. Thanks for listening and we'll see you again next week.



