PvA S4E170
===


[00:00:00] Open
---

​

[00:00:01] Brian: missing Troy, so we don't have a good product.

[00:00:03] Alex: silk underwear.

[00:00:06] Brian: It's a good product. I don't know. I've never had, I've never used it, but, I'd

[00:00:10] Alex: Except when 

[00:00:10] Brian: it. 

[00:00:10] Alex: yeah, I'm, I dunno. Are they easy to clean? I,

[00:00:13] Brian: Wait, what were you gonna say? I'm interested in that.

[00:00:17] Alex: oh boy. No. let's get started. Let 


[00:00:20] Welcome
---

[00:00:20] Brian: ​

Welcome to people versus algorithms. This is a show if you don't know already about, media, technology and culture, connecting the dots. We are not joined by Troy Young or ab. AB is working on a deal.

Troy is mysteriously traveling, something like that.

So it's just me and you, Alex. 

This is like when the parents are away. I don't know. I don't know what it was like, growing up. where did you grow up again? Switzerland.

[00:00:57] Alex: no. Everywhere.

[00:00:59] Brian: you grew up all over, you grew in

a petting zoo in, in Cyprus, 

I think. Uh, but in, in, you know, when the parents went away, at least in like the sort of late eighties, American suburbs, you know, the kids had parties.

My mother 

listens to this. we 

had,

parties. She knew. Yeah.

Did you have parties at like house parties?

[00:01:19] Alex: we did. But I, I am aware of American culture as you know, you exported it through 

[00:01:24] Brian: No, it was binge drinking, but it wasn't, it wasn't about like sipping wine or having people over for like

[00:01:28] Alex: No, no, but I mean, I've, I've seen the movies, 

[00:01:30] Brian: Okay. Yeah, No, but it was true. It's great. I don't know. Do kids do that these days? Do they have house parties?

[00:01:36] Alex: I don't know. I mean, they don't even, they don't drink anymore.

[00:01:39] Brian: I don't think they sell kegs anymore. In high

school, the, the sort of the social, the social gatherings were, in the suburbs. Like someone, someone's like brother or they had a fake Id somehow would get a keg and like you just like put a keg out, like on a golf course

[00:01:55] Alex: I, I'm sure this ha

[00:01:56] Brian: of teens would come.

[00:01:58] Alex: I'm sure this still happens. I mean, the places I grew up, you could, you sneak your way into a bar at 15. So 

[00:02:05] Brian: Well, you could do that in Philadelphia. You had to go, you had to go. in the suburbs, you had to go.

in, in, into the city. there was a couple, there was a couple bars in North Philly that would admit

[00:02:15] Alex: So this is us. I'm, I'm a little worried because I think, I think my place on the show really works well when played against Troy. I'm essentially here to be a, a, a,

foil.

for Troy. And so when he's not there, the dynamics kind of break apart a 

[00:02:31] Brian: All right. Yeah, no, I can, I can be more hostile because, I was in New Orleans this week, for a a B2B media conference. It's called bims, business Information. I forget the M and the S.

anyway, I, I like going to these B2B

[00:02:45] Alex: What's this? Just as to set, set the scene for us. What's the scale of something like that?

[00:02:49] Brian: it's like 200 or so. I guess it was like 200 people. It was at, it was at the Ritz Carlton in New Orleans, where I used

to, we used to do events at my last job, so I hadn't been there in several years. They have this, really strong signature scent in there where you first, you first, like, I, I'm like, get outta the elevators.

It's one of those lobbies that's like on the third floor, and it's like, ah, this is really nice. And then you're like, oh no, this is

like living with like a really intense, like air freshener faze.

[00:03:17] Alex: I have, I have, I have trouble with smells. I, I think I have a very good sense of smell, so I cannot walk into one of these candle stores without. Going crazy. I'm a little bit like a golden retriever when there's fireworks, when there's too many smells around me. You know, at the airport when they spritz you.

[00:03:31] Brian: Oh, yeah,

[00:03:32] Alex: Yeah. 

So it would be hard for, but wait, I,

[00:03:34] Brian: so, I went there and, and you know, I, there were a, a lot of people versus algorithms listeners, like I, people came up and like, and that was really, that was really cool. so one guy came up to me, I'm gonna keep him anonymous. and he said, so one thing I

really need to know. Yeah. Do Troy and Alex really hate each other?

[00:03:53] Alex: No, that's a complicated question. No, you can answer that. I think you've seen us interact.

[00:03:59] Brian: said, yes. Yeah.

[00:04:01] Alex: He hates No, we, we love each other, but he hates what I represent, which is like, you know, youthful socialism.

[00:04:09] Brian: Yeah, exactly. no, I, I, I explained it that I said, you know, some of this is character development, you know, because you need to, you need to sort of be yourself. I always counsel Troy, you know, be yourself, but not too much. So, but like, you need to like, you know, play on your edges if you look at like all, and you have to admit they've done a good job of establishing themselves

in their different characters, you know?

And Jason, you know, in this season, Jason's new character development took a real twist with him being a buddy of Jeffrey Epstein's, like, so

[00:04:38] Alex: Yeah. 

There 

[00:04:39] Brian: we'll get to that later. 

[00:04:41] Alex: it's like a, like a, it's a midseason thing that they do to, get the ratings up. Right. 

[00:04:46] Brian: Yeah. So, Troy, I, I wish Troy was here just in general, but like,

I want to talk to him

[00:04:51] Alex: Also, not in the Epstein files gonna say 

[00:04:54] Brian: I 

know I 

did it, I did a control FI did a control F for Troy. I'm just kidding. Of course, Troy was not in the 

[00:05:01] Alex: of course, I, I didn't know anyone in it. I was hoping I might be, some, some fish out, some dirt, but like nobody. 


[00:05:08] Reputational Cost
---

[00:05:08] Brian: So I knew I had two former bosses in the Epstein files and not like in like a, a, a passing way because Jason was there. I mean, Jason wasn't like, you know, it was a little bit passing, but because I guess he's, he's more prominent now. which is kind of crazy for me to think,

you know, it, it got some, it got some buzz, I guess at least on, on, on X. and then Michael Wolf, which is all always well known,he's long been,

enmeshed with, with Epstein. but I think the, the thing there, and I saw this somewhere, it's like, you don't want to be in those files, but you want to at least know, like you wanna know enough people. And that might be an East Coast

thing.

Like you wanna, 

[00:05:45] Alex: that, 

[00:05:46] Brian: you

wanna know, know enough people who are in there. 

[00:05:49] Alex: okay? That's some sort of grading that happens when you know you need, the best thing is to know as many people but not be in it. 

[00:05:57] Brian: totally. Yeah. Yeah. You don't want to be in it. there's no 

upside to be Well, the, there is some upside. So, Tina Brown, because I want to, let's just get into talking about the reputational cost and whether reputation

matters at all because 

[00:06:09] Alex: that.

[00:06:10] Brian: Tina Brown, like she got an invite to go to Epstein's townhouse, to some kind of dinner.

And the, the draw was that Prince Andrew would be there and, Harvey Weinstein, she replied, she was like, what is this the, like, pedophiles ball

[00:06:28] Alex: I mean, yeah, no, she, she looked, 

[00:06:31] Brian: might have been Predator's Ball. 

[00:06:32] Alex: she, she looked, she looked great. I think there was a great snappy remark.

[00:06:36] Brian: Yeah, so not many people did. Yuval Hariri also came, came across, looking just fine because he rejected his ENT treaties. there's a lot of people in here and one of the things that I, I was thinking about is whether there's, whether there's still reputational cost there because, I think we're seeing overall like a sort of reset of this thing we went through.

I always think we swing back and forth, like in a pendulum, and so we went through a period, the quote unquote woke period or cancel period, whatever you want to call it,

where there was a heightened sensitivity. A lot of things were, there was a a, there was social costs being put on, on people for

bad behavior. 

[00:07:21] Alex: you know, things they said, things they did, 

[00:07:23] Brian: And it, and it ran. Yeah. And it, and it ran the gamut from like literal. Crimes, you know, to bad jokes or you know, like all kinds of, like, I, all kinds of things that I think now we look back and say, eh, that was a little excessive Right?

[00:07:44] Alex: Some of it was 

[00:07:45] Brian: some of it. was 

[00:07:46] Alex: Some of it Some of it was good. Really good. Yes. 

[00:07:49] Brian: Yeah. I'm not, I'm, you know, I try, again, I'm against Harvey Weinstein too.

I'm against Ted Kozinski and Harvey Weinstein.

Uh, even Charlie Rose, even Charlie

Rose. I'm not, I'm not in favor of Charlie Rose either. but I think there's a general, you know, look, the pendulum then swings too far back. And I just wonder, is there a reputational cost?

I mean, we saw in Europe, we were supposed to be the Puritans, right? And then in Europe you guys are like, know, I thought anything goes

[00:08:18] Alex: way I represent everyone in Europe.

[00:08:20] Brian: yeah, like DSK, I mean, come on. Like, he was what was, what did, what was his, he was called the hot rabbit.

The French politician. 

[00:08:29] Alex: it's 

[00:08:29] Brian: Is it the hot rabbit?

I don't even know. if it translates well, 

I don't know. I, I don't even, I don't even know what it, what it translates to. It's an untranslatable

[00:08:37] Alex: it's not translatable. It's not for, quaint American ears. I, it's, it's, I mean, we, we've had our own share of SCOs in Europe, so maybe it's less shocking.

It's like we, you know, this has been, we, we know. but on the reputational risk, I, I wonder if all of this is like, just like a, there's a pretty big like maybe perception gap between, social media noise, right? Which is how we measure impact of these things. Does that make sense? like a centralized social media effort that feeds itself into the media.

It becomes a thing versus now that's not really happening anymore. But I think like on an individual level and if you kind of queried people in their everyday life, I do think that there is a, there's a cost. I mean, there's still impact felt and I'm sure it impacts them in their social lives and their business dealings and all sorts of things.

[00:09:31] Brian: So do you, like, do you think that it's fair that people bear a social cost for associating with, with him at all? Because I think there's a conflation of things. One is there's, there's the implication that people were up to no good, right? And so that's obviously like, look, if you're, if you got the frequent flyer, if you're getting like bonus, whatever the sort of loyalty points to, to Epstein

Island, and that guy Mandelson from the uk like he was. Again, I don't know what's real anymore with ai, but like there was this one photo, let's, let's just assume it's real. Um, of him wearing like branded merch from like Epstein Island. I mean, don't, if you're, if you're visiting the gift shop, like there should be a cost

[00:10:17] Alex: Yeah. Um, well, I think there's a few things. Number one,some, some of these things that came out that have been widely shared are from the FBI tip line, and so we don't know if these are real, right? Like, so

[00:10:27] Brian: No. Some are like ludicrous.

[00:10:29] Alex: what, because I mean, and, and I don't know if it's on purpose to like, 

you know, disseminate all this junk with it.

[00:10:35] Brian: I don't know either, but I'll say yes.

[00:10:37] Alex: on the other, and on the other hand, also, there's like, some of this messaging could be innocuous. Like, you know, somebody wants to go to a party, right? Somebody, somebody desperately wants to go to a party, apparently, like, you know, when it's at, its kind of wildest because they had a really hard year working, 

[00:10:50] Brian: Yeah, that's Elon Musk. Elon Musk did not come across great in this. He came, he came across as a, a, a desperate dork.

[00:10:57] Alex: The, the dorks. Dorks was like, when I read the, like, I walked over to my file, I was just like, what a bunch of dorks, all of these guys. Oh, Jesus. and even Epstein, I mean, we've seen lots of videos and stuff like that. how uncharismatic and uninteresting he sounded, and it was kind of bewildering to think that he would have all this entourage.

But, you know, I guess, I guess for some people that came with perks, the, the thing, the, the people that I think that came off the worst, outside of the people that look like total creeps, and there's a bunch of them that do, are those that says, I never, you know, I, I met him once and he was a total creep and we never did again.

And then 

like three weeks, three 

[00:11:35] Brian: I'll do the, an annotation here.

[00:11:38] Alex: you're, you're saying it not me, 

[00:11:39] Brian: I'm not worried about, I'm not worried about offending Howard Lutnick.

[00:11:42] Alex: three weeks later it comes out that like, you know, like, what are your coordinates,

[00:11:46] Brian: Yeah. Well, a lot of this is 

[00:11:49] Alex: so, the thing is like the lying is that, you 

[00:11:51] Brian: yeah. I mean, look, I, I, I realize that like, as a journalist, like I have like a high sensitivity to hypocrisy. I mean, it's just like the, it's just the feature, of, of the journalist people. however, like that is like glaring and, and there was a lot of disassembling and I don't know, there, just from a crisis PR perspective, I'm surprised more people didn't get ahead of this.

Like, I, I didn't have to like start, like, I don't know. I mean, I guess I email a fair number of people. I don't run in these kind of circles exactly,

but like, I feel like I would've known if I had exchanged say hundreds. Of messages with, with Jeffrey Epstein that it would probably get out. I might wanna, I, I might wanna like, you know, not be so declarative in, in, in my statements

about that. It was interesting though, with Epstein that I liked getting into these things. 'cause I like to see how these people talk like in, you know, in their private life,

you always like wonder 

and 

it's so it's so disappointing.

[00:12:53] Alex: yeah, it is how, as a, I was actually wondering 

[00:12:56] Brian: They need Calendly. They can't figure out like fricking calendars. I'm like, these oligarchs, how are they running the world? They can't even, they don't know when they're gonna be in the same city and everything like this. Nobody uses Zoom, I guess, back then, and they're, they're constantly just like, just trying to do coordination work.

Is AI gonna solve this?

[00:13:15] Alex: I mean, it's their assistants, but, I mean the, as somebody who's worked with an assistant for. Big part of my career can tell you you're a baby once you leave those jobs, you know not to do anything. You know, a lot of these, like high ranking executives, including myself, like turn out, we're not ready for the, for the outside world when once we leave, you know, the, the, the comfort of having a team that manages your time.

But did, I was wondering about as a writer,I like to write my emails and I, you know, I sometimes will reread them 

[00:13:45] Brian: Oh, you dictate them. Come on.

[00:13:47] Alex: no, no, i, I type everything. But I always felt like, you know, I mean, I pay attention to capital letters and punctuations as well as I can, you know, I'm not writing a dissertation, but, the writing, the, the typos, the, the crazy capitalization, the weird two dots or four dots at the end, you know, four, you know, like, it, it's really like it pulls a curtain and makes everyone's whose email you read, like less, much less interesting than you thought they were. 

[00:14:14] Brian: Yeah. I mean, that's a flex though. It's like I've seen, it's like a bill. It's, you know, it reminds me of have you ever had one of those guys who does the, it's always a guy who does the, like the, the really, the low talking. They like talk really like

low and, and you're like, I'm like, why are you doing, and, and then you realize it's, it's all to make you strained to hear them.

And it's a power

[00:14:36] Alex: Because they went to some sort of Tony Robbins seminar or something like that to like, you pull them in by talking low. Like they, they think they're like neuro linguistically programming 

[00:14:44] Brian: They, you have to lean in and I, I believe. And, and this is not an original thing. and I believe that is what is at play here, is the idea that you can flout all, and this plays into this, you can flout all social norms, obviously, but you can also just flout the norms of like, you know, punctuation and grammar and force the other person to try to figure out the

meaning of 

[00:15:07] Alex: I think that's an excuse. I think, I think, I think that's the, I think in part that's an excuse. I think this, that's the same way I, I used to say like, you know, I'm too, you know, I'm too important to schedule my own time and turns out I have crippling A DHD and I don't understand how time works.

[00:15:23] Brian: That's true. I don't that, that, that seems like, I mean, it does. I, at first when I read that I was like, no, this guy's just barely literate. and 

it's kind of like the, the Peter Teel, the Peter Teel, you know, his speaking style is, difficult and

you know, then I, I hear that. Explain that. Oh, well it's just because Peter thinks so fast.

It's kind of like how people who frequently interrupt others, they say, oh, it's just because my mind works really fast.

[00:15:53] Alex: yeah. No, the, uh, you know, it's, no, it, it's that, yeah, that's a lot of bullshit and we assign things to, to these people. But yeah, it was, it was fascinating. The thing that I've been, noticing and because on my, the parts of the internets that I engage with, which is, you know, Reddit's still the best social media on, on session, still the best, you know, website on the internet.

I think at this stage is that,there are people who are slowly getting dragged into. conspiracy theories that were very much rejecting them before, right? Like YouTubers and stuff like that, like coffee, Zilla being one of them, right? Being somebody. And, and at this stage it's, it's, it's hard to maintain any, sense of what's real and what's not.

Because every time somebody makes a kind of completely crazy declaration about, about what these parties were and how many people connected, right? It gets. Reasonable people go, well, it's probably exaggerated. And then a new drop comes in and you see Woody Allen hanging out with Steve Bannon and you're like, what the fuck is happening in the world today?

Like, boy is Woody Allen. I mean, they're both terrible people, obviously. And, and, and now the the, you know, there's an ongoing narrative that a lot of this, like Pizzagate stuff, including the creation of Q Anon was created as a psyop to by Steve Bannon to kind of move people away from the Epstein files.

Right. And it, and it's like, and of, of course, that sounds crazy, but is it, you know, 

[00:17:21] Brian: Right. I know. I mean, there's one that like Epstein created Bitcoin. I don't know if that's why Bitcoin has been in the but um.

[00:17:29] Alex: I mean, I don't think he's smart enough for that. I do think that like, there's a, there's a, there are real kind of insights into the narrative management of these people talking about like how they should create video and media, you know, how they look at content and, and social media as a way to, to shift the narrative and how many people piled on to, to help, right?

Like, you know, I think apparently Woody Allen Woody was, going to help edit the video that was going to make, Epstein feel, you know, he was going to record a video with Steve Bannon and Woody Allen was going to edit, edited. 

[00:18:03] Brian: Yeah. So I mean, we will see if there's, I I do agree with you. It's, it's very early and I think the, the social costs should mount and like, my, my kind of hope is it does, because I wonder with a lot of the things going on right now in like our political system, there's, there's a sense that there is, there are not now repercussions for, for anything, honestly. Like, I mean, we see like the, the, just, just this, we, it seems like it was like a month ago, like the Wall Street Journal drops like a story about this, the world financial, the, the crypto company

that like UAE is

like buying 49% of it and then all of a sudden they're getting access to these chips like early on in the administration.

Like, I mean, these things would, would, would ruin administrations in the past and like the reputational damage, I wondered like where, where exactly is it? And like, I'm not, I'm not saying that like that, that we should go back to having some kind of like mobs or, or something like that. But like there has to be a balance at some point. 

[00:19:09] Alex: Yeah, I, I agree. I, I, but I wonder, like, I, I, I don't really have a, a, a clear hold on, on what's and what's happening there, but I have a sense that there is a, that there's kind of like two rubrics and one is, one is like we kind of got, adjusted to thinking that, you know, whatever the algorithms pick up, right?

I mean, that was during the. in, in the last few years before that when there was, you know, these kind of cancel events that used to happen, we used to see like some sort of retribution or consequences. And then we used to be measured in how many much the algorithm would amplify things and how much stuff we would see on social media.

Right. I do think, I do think that the world has changed in the way that it responds to algorithms. I think the algorithms have changed. So it feels like sometimes some of these things land and there's so much stuff going on, is that they land with the dud. but I don't know at the end of the day behind all that, how much real world impact this has on people and if, and if that has diminished.

Like there's definitely like, you know, the, the, the current government and, and the corruption there and stuff like that. We're definitely not seeing consequences, people in those lists and that type of stuff, I wonder if it's more or less than before. It's, it's hard to tell that, that, that view is distorted for me.

You 

[00:20:22] Brian: Yeah.

Brian John, Brian Johnson was, was angling for, for a meeting there, and he had a, he's the, he's the guy who wants to live

forever. Yeah,

He's try, he's try, he tried to get, get out and, you know, explain away. Peter Atia, who I never heard of until, until this, he is a, some kind of wellness guy.

he's one of Barry Weiss's new, contributors.

So she's digging in her heels. This is, this is, this is the woke mind virus

cancellation 

[00:20:51] Alex: Yeah, yeah. Deny. Deny. What was 

[00:20:53] Brian: I mean, this is, that is the problem when you stake, when you stake your reputation on one of these kind of fads, if you will. Like, and I really do believe, you know, like she gets a lot of criticism and some, some of it I think is misplaced.

Like I know Troy is not here to, defend her? 

but, um, 

you know, I think

[00:21:12] Alex: Okay. She's got, She's got, other people defending her.

[00:21:14] Brian: I think one of the most, you know, the, the best ones is just like kind of attached herself to like a temporary phenomenon. And look, you need a hack. We talk about this a lot in media. You gotta find some kind of hack.

Usually it would be a distribution hack. Sefo has a monetization hack. This was like a, a bit of a political, cultural hack in which you find an issue that is a wedge issue that that bothers a lot of rich and powerful people,

you know, which is, is this kind of retribution that was happening 'cause it was happening to their friends.

Let's be real

here. But you can still maintain. You're kind of centrist, progressive ish positions as long as you go hard on that issue. But the problem ends up being that issue, like all issues loses its salience and so you're left with your reputation being tied to this thing that is, has actually flipped more to the other side.

So she's sort of, you know, you gotta, you gotta dance with the one you brung, but that's, that's a tough

[00:22:14] Alex: Yeah, I think, I mean, I think the potency of issues that, you know, like, like, you know, there might be three trans kits in America that go to a bathroom that somebody finds offensive, right? that does lose potency pretty quickly when there's a, all this other stuff in the news, right? Like that's the type of stuff that people get tired of, 


[00:22:34] Company Reputation
---

[00:22:34] Brian: So I think with moving off Epstein, like companies maintaining

their, we can go, we could go to Ted, Ted Kozinski, we're gonna have Kozinski Corner is coming up later. So instead of good product, I'm gonna do a, I'm gonna do a live reading, from

[00:22:50] Alex: Why he had the some. A few good points.

[00:22:54] Brian: Yeah. Like, you know, I, if we're revisiting Q Anon, we might as well revisit, Ted's manifesto.

but ice, you know, I think we shouldn't lose sight of the fact that protecting, like a reputation is, I think on one hand it's, I, I go back and forth, but like on the one hand it's really difficult because you can get pulled into a lot of crazy things these days, particularly as, as, as a company, right?

And we're seeing this with, with ice in Minneapolis. you know, there's a lot of companies that have been pulled in. This target got a lot of pressure because they were allowing ICE to like use their bathrooms and, and do like enforcement actions on an, on their property.

and that ignite there are, Minneapolis Corporation ignited a lot of outrage. I believe the Hilton, was, was renting rooms to ice agents. Right. And so they were the subject of boycotts. Scott Galloway has started, this resist and unsubscribe movement, if you will, and he wants people to, you know, and I think he has a good point, like ultimately companies respond to market pressure.

And, you know, the reason that people start to talk about, boycotts and divestiture campaigns in such sweeping terms is because. They have an impact, right? I wonder if this can, can, can actually work. I do think that there is, we're moving into a, a a a time where you can't divorce yourself from the political environment at all.

You are gonna get pulled into it no matter what in the information space it is gonna happen. And look, we're already seeing the development of different services based on politics. I mean, look at like TikTok, right? You know, TikTok gets taken over by Allison and by, you know, a very maga friendly cabal. And immediately there is the suggestion, real or perceived that they're putting their thumb on the scale of the type of content that is,that is available through that, that the algorithm is surfacing and then all of a sudden there's, there's, there's a rival that that pops up.

Up scroll. That's getting like a lot of, of downloads, it keeps rising.

The popularity I saw the, the, the founder of it is, he was, he was b he's an Australian, he was born in j Jordan, but identifies himself as he's, he's Palestinian. And now this is becoming like an identity thing. And so I, I'm just like really interested in one, whether these kinds of, of pressures on, on corporations and on individuals will continue. and what the, what the impact of that is gonna be. 

[00:25:46] Alex: Yeah, the culture around these things kind of evolve and they become a group dynamic, and I definitely feel that, you know, the, a lot of the, the protests in Minnesota, et cetera, have brought in other people who feel like, while I want to participate in some way, or I was ignoring this, but I see that it matters to a lot of people.

And it's, you know, we're noticing that, hey, when you do these concerted efforts to, To fight back in, you know, in whichever way you can. it can have an impact, right? And I think that, the commercial aspects of it, like boycotting, canceling subscriptions, that type of stuff.

I think it sends enough of a signal that, you know, sitting on the board, like, you know, that the, the, the board is, the board of these companies is talking about it. They don't like it. it's going to have some sort of change for sure. Even if the numbers are like, you know, two, 3%, right?

Like, you know, like fractional, 

[00:26:41] Brian: Yeah. It's just managing reputation to me in this kind of environment is fascinating.

I I just because it is, it is a diff it's, it's difficult and it's a different ball game, and I think the advantages are. Something else pops up like the next day. Like I think that there's a case to be made that you hunker down and that, you know, the mob will move on to the next house.

at the end of the day, you know, who else has a reputation problem? Again, Trish should be here to defend us. It, Forbes does. Like Forbes has, they gotta stop with these 30 under 30 people getting arrested. Like at this point it is like, it's not even like making the joke like on X

is 

[00:27:22] Alex: I think last time I made the joke, Troy got very angry with me.

[00:27:25] Brian: Because it's not even funny anymore because like it keeps happening. Like the, another one got got wrung up for fraud and

at some point, you know, being on the Forbes 30 and the 30 list might become a reputational hit,

not a bonus.

You might wanna drop it off your LinkedIn.

[00:27:41] Alex: yeah, they should just merge it with the no fly list and just be done, like save some of the work. Yeah. It's funny. It's funny. I wonder, I mean, there's gotta be some research as to why that statistically happens. You know? I guess when you reach a stage where you're very successful, very young, you know, 

[00:27:59] Brian: Prodigies, dude. Prodigies are always weird.

What were you 

[00:28:03] Alex: yeah, 

[00:28:03] Brian: Sorry.

[00:28:05] Alex: I for a second, quickly declined. no, that's true. I think that's true. but, I mean, I, I think there's probably like, just like statistically a reason for that to happen, but it's, I mean, I think Forbes has other reputational issues at, at the moment. I used to see it everywhere on Google searches that I don't anymore.

I don't know if they're, they're ready for this new age 

[00:28:27] Brian: Well, they got whacked by, they got whacked by the algorithm changes and just search, just becoming far less, reliable. You know, they have, they have a really successful commerce business there. Like the numbers that I hear out of their

commerce, their affiliate business is, and they flip to buying, right?

So, like, 

[00:28:45] Alex: like, 

best, best, insurance company or whatever, best car insurance, best credit card, that type of stuff.

[00:28:51] Brian: they make a stupendous amount of money off of, like, off of like GLP ones. Like, I mean, that's like a great, great cash cow. Like if you,

if you search for, for GLP ones, you're gonna find like a Forbes comparison page. And a lot of that it comes from, because they outsourced it, they, they got professionals in there that were not part of some newsroom or something.

You compare that with how, say like the Wall Street Journal has handled its, commerce operation. The

newsroom would be like, no, we can't do that. That's not like in our lane. and Forbes, like, no, none of that. We we're gonna have the professionals do it who are really good at this and don't have the squeamishness of, of, of journalists.

[00:29:34] Alex: Yeah. I mean, I wonder what the Forbes newsroom even looks like at this stage. Must be interesting.

[00:29:39] Brian: yeah. Oh, one last thing on, on the reputation and, and ice, there's even, it, it even came to ad tech. Because ice, ice is like looking around for us. It's like, how do we, how do we identify people? And so they've got massive budgets. So they, they issued an RFI for, for ad tech companies to, to help them with their, their surveillance, which isn't gonna help the reputation of ad tech, I feel like.

Right. Like they've been, they've been saying, this is not surveillance capitalism. This is not, this is we're, it's just the third party cookie. Why are you like freaking out about this? And then ICE is like, no, you can help us like round people up. 

[00:30:17] Alex: that's interesting. I thought they would, that would just run through Palantir. Right? Like, it's interesting that they would go straight to them. It's an, it's an odd,

[00:30:25] Brian: I, I mean, judging from the wording on, on the RFI, I think they have no idea what they're doing. they're, they, I think they're, I, I think they're, they're assuming like many, like, who have not come up, up, up too close to ad tech than it is, is far more precise than it is, like it

is. I'm not saying that there's not real technology there, but like, it is not exactly like foolproof.

I'll just put it

[00:30:46] Alex: I think Donald Trump Jr. Woke up with an idea and then made a phone call, and then they started putting out, you know, requests for proposals. 


[00:30:53] Bezos & WP Disaster
---

[00:30:53] Brian: So, one other person I want to talk about from the perspective of reputation, Jeff Bezos. Okay, so the Washington Post, this week, this thing was telegraphed for so long, they've had buyouts. They've done like layoffs here and there. they're mired in an identity crisis.

They have a CEO that was like roundly rejected by the newsroom. The newsroom was like investigating him before he had the job. Not a good sign. Like if you're taking a job and you know, the core of your, your team, is investigating you, it ain't good. His

handpicked successor got, got, got rejected by the newsroom.

They investigated that guy to the point where he couldn't take the job. Matt Murray, who, who is in the role there? I know Matt and I, I really respect him and I think he's, he's been put in a difficult situation and, you know, I, I am rooting for them to figure it out. I do, I do, I do know like several people over there and I, I feel, you know, I, I like them and I, I am, you know, hopeful and rooting for them. Jeff Bezos, I got a problem with,

he bought this thing in 2013 for $250 million. He got a massive house in Kalorama. Okay. It was like, oh, great. We'll have these parties, like Catherine Graham used to have salons in Georgetown. We'll have salons. People will come over. It'll be glamorous, it'll be cool. I don't know where he was in his midlife crisis.

Was he already in a midlife crisis in 2013? It feels like

[00:32:21] Alex: I think he's been in the middle like crisis since like he was 28. 

[00:32:24] Brian: Yeah, this is the problem when you male pattern baldness comes for you early. I, I think middle age it gets weirder, but sorry to all the bald guys out there, this

[00:32:33] Alex: I think some people handle it better though. Yeah, I think some people handle it great. I think, Jason Statham looks like he's having a fine life.

[00:32:40] Brian: Yeah, I noticed that like conferences, I the only sort of like acceptable profiling you can do, like if you like mix up people, like based on their appearance is like bald white guys. Like if you call a bald white guy another bald white guy's name, like they just like laugh about it 'cause it happens all the time.

Like, you just like, it's the only, it's great. so thank you. Thank you to all the bald white guys out there. cause otherwise it'd be super awkward,

right? 

[00:33:06] Alex: yeah.

[00:33:08] Brian: So the thing with the, the thing with the, the post is. This thing has been like an unmitigated disaster. And you can't, I know Troy would, would be here.

I'll just speak for Troy. Be like, this is a difficult business. You need to make tough, tough choices, you know? And, agreed, agreed, agreed. at the same time, you know, Colin Powell said, you broke it, you Pottery Barn rules. You know, you break it, you own it

like you own this asset. Jeff Bezos, you're a business genius.

Okay? You've, you've been in this midlife crisis for, you know, seemingly decades, right? So you're spending a lot of time in St. Barts. you're going to the, like, the Euro trash lifestyle

[00:33:50] Alex: bought, you bought a yacht and I know you keep calling it Euro trash lifestyle. I'm not offended. It's fine.

[00:33:56] Brian: again, I'm trafficking in, in crass stereotypes. This is what happens when you go post institutional. You can

speak 

[00:34:01] Alex: right, he does. You're not scared of cancellation anymore, 

you 

know? We're past that. Yeah. He bought, he bought a yacht that's for, for twice the amount that he played. Paid for the Washington 

[00:34:11] Brian: W Right. 

And, and they look owning, owning a media asset. And this is like when Troy will say, well, it can't keep losing hundreds of millions of dollars. I agreed. Yeah, yeah. You gotta run these things like, to, as, as businesses. And

yet, at the same time, if you're, if you're looking for a cash flowing asset, don't get into media.

Like any billionaire that is listening to this podcast, please do not get into media if you're looking to like generate reliable, stable cash flow with no, headaches.

Think about car dealerships, I don't know, coin operated laundromats. There's all kinds of private equity stuff you can do. This is a bad business and it comes with these weird costs.

You will end up losing business because of things that your asset does. That is the test of owning a media business. You're not really in the media business until you take a financial hit because of of the journalism that you do. It's always been the case, always will be the case. There's tons of upsides to owning a media business.

As I said, a lot of good parties, there's political leverage in it, but there are downsides and beyond that. Isn't this guy a business genius? Like I feel, I think that a, a generation of me of mediocre media executives should feel a lot better about themselves right now because

he clearly has no answers, and

he's trying to avoid that by saying, by being an absentee owner, unacceptable.

[00:35:44] Alex: what Troy can say is correct, right? These are, these are hard businesses and hard decisions need to be made. The problem is like, it doesn't seem like a, it doesn't seem like any of these good decisions were made. Earlier or progressively. Or intelligently.

I get a sense that, he, he might have been ready to lose money, but there's also these, these individuals are very competitive and, and having something that isn't making money, is a sign of failure. Does that make sense? And so it's the thing 

that they couldn't turn around, but didn't, I mean, what do you, what do you, how do you feel like Reine Powell jobs did with the Atlantic, for example?

Didn't, isn't she thought 

[00:36:20] Brian: Stupendous, she's done. I mean, she's done great. Great job. The, the, The,

Atlantic has poached so many, talented people from the Washington Post.

It's profitable. It made, it made difficult decisions. Like, and we mentioned this, you had a hard stop, but I, I, I, Trey and I talked about this a little bit the other week. you know, when she took over. You know, she did, she did some pretty deep layoffs to a much smaller newsroom, but she did some pretty deep layoffs there and she made some difficult choices of getting out of some businesses that she didn't think that, that, that they should be in. Like, you know, they were doing a lot of the Washington, the Washington, like influencer circuit stuff.

And she was like, no, I'm not, I'm not, I'm gonna get out of this, this event stuff. The video they were doing a lot of like, you know, video that wasn't moving the needle. She's like, oh, I'm gonna do it. And they became a talent first organization. This is the way I see it. See them and they have a, a really good subscription business. They do, they do great work. You know, they still, they're a meaning. I think that the, the work that they're doing now, at least from what I remember, is actually as impactful if not more impactful than it was before she took over. That's success. That's success. You cannot say that about Jeff Bezos

[00:37:35] Alex: Yeah. 

[00:37:35] Brian: the Washington Post.

You

[00:37:36] Alex: Yeah. And my, my guess is that there's a. Psychology there also a person that, you know, ran his company and says, alright, now I don't want you to take pee breaks anymore. And people just did it. And he's dealing with this much smaller asset where people are telling him no and disagreeing. Like, I wonder, this feels, this feels, I wouldn't be surprised if look

[00:37:58] Brian: wouldn't want to run a, a journalistic 

[00:38:00] Alex: me, me,

me too. and I just wanna be clear. Like, I'm not, I'm 

[00:38:03] Brian: I mean, if I was a billionaire, I, I'm, I'm in too deep. Like I, if I was a billionaire, I wouldn't want anything. Why would I wanna deal with that? That's crazy.

[00:38:09] Alex: as somebody who's gone and had to manage layoffs, I don't think most people ever want to do layoffs. It's not, you know, there's this kind of myth that like there's these managers rubbing their hands together saying, yeah, we're gonna. 

You know, get rid of, it's the worst. It's, it's horrible. Everybody feels bad about it, but I wonder how much part of this feels like a purge considering all the pushback they've always had.

You know, I think there's must be this real contentious relationship between Bezos and the people that work at his company when he's so used to just, you know, kind of telling people what to do and being able to manage, like, you know, teams of like thousands of people. 

[00:38:45] Brian: Agreed. So there is, there is absolutely a, an an important cultural element to a lot of these organizations. You can't. Paint with too broad of a brush, but this is a podcast, so Why not?

if you look at the Wall Street Journal and what they have been able to do, and Emma Tucker, has done, in my view, a great job of making the Wall Street Journal much more lively and just as impactful and improving the business.

Okay. As, as the editor there. and, you know, she's made some enemies internally. She had to get rid of a lot of people, like, and I know that that sounds like terrible to say, but like there were a lot of people at, you know, in these organizations who, you know, were not on board with, with changing things.

And that is like normal. And that's, that's something that you have to make difficult choices. And some of them, honestly, I've shared them in the, in the WhatsApp. It's like, so and so has been working 36 years, you know, it's like, you know, paragraph nine. And so it's like, wow, this is pretty rough. You know?

It's like, yeah, appreciate the, appreciate the efforts for 36 years, but you do have, change is difficult for sure. but ultimately it's a results business.

It's 

[00:40:03] Alex: I wanna, and the thing I agree, and this is, this is, and because Troy isn't here, I'm gonna 

[00:40:10] Brian: I love this I like when Troy's here because we can talk about him and like 

[00:40:14] Alex: Yeah. 

[00:40:14] Brian: his points and make them much more simplistic.

[00:40:16] Alex: is, and that was my, I think we should be allowed to criticize these people's strategies and how they got there. Right. And I think that in this case, it is obviously now something that they're doing in a knee-jerk.

And it's, it's not particularly well handled. It's, it's potentially existential for the business. And we've seen, you know, things with the Atlantic of people doing it more successfully. So it is possible. And I had the same, that was my same comment about David Zla, right? Like, well he's, you know, he's a genius.

I don't think so. I think somebody else who could have done a better job, right? Like case in point, he nearly fired his two, like movie studio executive, Pam, Abdi, I think, and, and De Luca, who, who, like he was, he was looking for other people to replace them, and they went out to have a string of hits.

You know, they did the Minecraft movie, they did sinners, they had 30 Oscar nominations. they had the best box office results. So, like, you know, on one side, he's this business genius that, that, that managed to turn Warner around on the other side, you know, a lot of the decisions, that he didn't have meaning making, he got lucky because these, these people stayed on for long enough to show that they turned around a bunch of money.

But we should be able, yes, these are hard businesses, but if you're not ready to run them properly, and if you're not good enough, like you shouldn't be doing it, I'm not gonna jump in and say, I can turn on a, a, a news organization or a media organization. Right? Like. And obviously the Washington Post was terribly run, and now they're suffering for it.

And I don't know what's gonna come out of that, you know?

[00:41:51] Brian: Yeah, no, it's a big loss. 


[00:41:53] Bringing Together The Buy & Sell Side
---

[00:41:54] Brian: And you know, this is, this is, stands in contrast to a lot of, of, of what I heard in New Orleans. 'cause the, the B2B world is totally different than this, right? It's not glamorous. The parties are not, are

[00:42:04] Alex: Well, you had the Reds. The Reds. It's like 200 people at the Ritz sounds pretty exclusive.

[00:42:09] Brian: no. Like all, so

[00:42:12] Alex: no. I've spent a lot of time in fancy hotels at resort hotels because of the corporate conference circuit. I mean, I expected it would be like the La Quinta outside the airport, but 

it's, but 

[00:42:26] Brian: it's offensive to B2B. no. I mean, like, it was, it was a, it was a nice event. but like, there was much more, these are good businesses, like, like B2B media businesses are frequently really good.

And

the reason is, is because they actually do have a moat and you know what the mode is. They operate in really grotesque areas a lot of times. Like they're, they're every, you know how they say, like, the real rich people are like the people like, you know, the local, the local owner of car dealerships or, you know, the, the, the plumber.

Like, think about every single business, every single one needs information, services, information. If we learned anything from Epstein, it's literally just an information game. That's what the economy is. Okay? And they're gonna need that kind of information and. They don't have a lot of competition, so that's the good news.

So they end up having much more stable businesses. Okay. On the flip side, you notice without the lack of competition, they have what one person, described to me as like a high tolerance for horrible design. You know, these things, these things look like, you know, they're like on like.net websites. One guy was telling me, he was like, yeah, we bought this, meet machinery like publication from like the, the owner who was like 83. you know, we quote unquote replatformed it. He's like, that means we got WordPress, like moves it off.

[00:43:48] Alex: Yeah, I, we actually, ironically in my, in my old life as a running a digital studio, we did business with quite a few of these, and some of them in the Middle East, I think, one of them was the MEED or something like that, like some business intelligence for, for the Middle East and oil companies and petrochemical, very focused.

You know what, just checked, still going strong. They haven't shut down. 

[00:44:12] Brian: Oh yeah. No, they're not, they're not gutting their like newsroom at Like the farm journal 

Like the farm journal is like, they're like, they, this is a really good business. Like, the Farm Journal and it's like privately owned by like 25 people. They got a long-term view. They're in the middle. Everyone eats everyone

except for the malt bots.

They all eat

massive, massive industry. They just like PO and the, and the opportunities just produce themselves. They just started an avocado conference. Okay. And like the avocado. And I was like, well that's kind of funny. And then I look, look it up. Avocados in the US alone are a $4 billion industry, which is remarkable considering I never saw an avocado until I was an adult. 

[00:44:56] Alex: You have to be a millennial to buy it. 

[00:44:57] Brian: they sold that, they sold the presenting sponsorship to Haas. This is like, come, it's not that complicated. Forget about all these algorithm

[00:45:04] Alex: We need to focus more, we need to have, like, we need to have our own focus, like our own, like very like specific niche 

[00:45:12] Brian: ILII love B2B, and, and it just shows that if you want to, if you want to have, I would always say this to, to, you know, I would get people, we had like a fashion publication, you know, people who work for, I, sometimes I would get, you know, these young people would always like compare their salaries and stuff and they would come to me and say, well, I don't, I'm getting paid less than the, the, the person is like writing about programmatic advertising.

I'm like, great. I was like, master programmatic advertising. Start to learn all of this gobbledygook and then like start writing consistently about it. Break stories and I will pay you the exact same amount. I was like,

but if you're just doing the fashion stuff, it's glamorous and like honestly, it's a marketplace and there's dozens if not hundreds of people who would immediately hit apply now on LinkedIn for the job.

That's just how the market works. So if you

want to differentiate, go to some place where there's less competition.

[00:46:04] Alex: I, I think it's also one of the last few places in media where you can still sell, sell display advertising because these, these audiences are so focused, you can literally just send a, send a, sometimes sell a banner on your website and, and somebody will buy it. Right. 

[00:46:17] Brian: That is true, but most, that is true. But like these businesses are, are very heavily on convening and matching up a buy and a sell site. It is a pure economic function.

They will only give passing, mention the quote unquote live journalism. I did hear that actually from, from the Farm Journal, but I was like, I don't think they really mean it because it is about getting buyers and sellers together.

I heard of like one event, I was so jealous. They literally don't do any programming. They just like bring together like

buyers and sellers and set up like tables. They, they pay them to have tables in some like massive like sprawling conference center and like some, like the biggest companies, they'll buy entire rooms and literally all you have to, to, to, to supply are freaking tables and seats and maybe some coffee. Like that's it, because

people are gonna need to meet and do business. It's a much more straightforward

[00:47:13] Alex: And you know what? It's not going away anytime soon. it's, 

[00:47:16] Brian: No 

[00:47:16] Alex: it's sticking around. You 

[00:47:17] Brian: power to B2B. We should do a live podcast from the avocado conference.

So I know we have Farm Journal listeners.

[00:47:24] Alex: I also wanna try to get a, you know, there's all these, cons in, in Vegas, and I've been trying to figure out a way into one of these, like builders conferences where they sell, like building tools to, to professional contractors.

that's the, I, you know, like I want to see that, I want participate in that somehow, but I, I don't have the right prerequisite. 

[00:47:44] Brian: So in these, like these, these, these resort hotels run all of these conferences. So like you, you would end up in those rooms just by accident. I would take like the wrong, like the wrong turn or something. And then I, I remember one time like in Vail, I ended up in like an ice conference. Like it was just like, and I, it was like, ha ha ha like ice.

And then you start like, do you know how big like the packaged ice business is?

[00:48:07] Alex: Oh, packaged ice. Okay. No, that type of 

ice. 

yeah. 

[00:48:10] Brian: yeah. Not that ice. Sorry.

[00:48:11] Alex: you can now buy like a $7, you know, clear ice cubes for your special cocktails and you know, like a dollar ice cube. It's pure profit.

[00:48:20] Brian: yeah, 


[00:48:21] AI & Ads
---

[00:48:21] Brian: we have to talk about AI because I know you have a hard stop in, in seven

minutes.it's very funny 'cause I feel like age agentic. I, I did say this would be the year of age agentic. I mean, it wasn't a hard, hard one, the chat bots almost seem like a head fake at this point, you know, because like, there's, there's a couple things going on.

One is like, in the Battle of the chat bots, let's actually start there. In the Battle of

the Chatbots, open AI is coming out with ads on, Chatt. It's very sensitive to it. It dropped this thing on a Friday afternoon, right? Almost apologetically instead of like actually trumpeting the product like at like advertising week or can, or something like this.

It was all about how they would, they would try to make it basically like, as like tangential as possible and it would never impact

[00:49:07] Alex: Yeah. 

[00:49:08] Brian: the, the actual

answers, 

[00:49:09] Alex: a reflection of, of the way San Alman feels about ads and 

[00:49:13] Brian: Y Yeah. So, anthropic, scrambles, they're running these, these, the Super Bowl ads, I guess. I don't really know. Like, I mean, but they, they rolled it out ahead of the Super Bowl, and these are not totally accurate. I mean, I would say I would like, I, you know, Alman has a well-deserved, reputation for being a slippery individual.

but I don't know. I mean, anthropic, these ads were basically saying that the chat bott, they got the chat bot,diction really well, you know, were going to be, their answers were going to be, influenced by the advertising that they would all of a sudden be slipping advertising into the answers,

which of 

course, they're not doing, they're not doing,

it's the, the ads themselves, I, I think are, are, I don't know.

I think

they could actually file a 

[00:50:01] Alex: I, think it's, I I mean, I don't know. I think it's complicated. 

So it's a, it's a guy talking to a trainer, and then you notice that the trainer is actually the AI answering him.

Right? yes. It, but it, it plays to a fear and I think it's framed in a way, advertising is coming to AI and it's playing to a fear that we all have, including me, that it starts a certain way. Right. You know, I think Google Ads started a certain way. They had a nice real, real big box around it and said advertising, and then it's really hard to distinguish what is advertising and not advertising.

I do think that there is some truth to that. They, they didn't say they're coming ads are coming to open ai. They, they're saying ads are coming to AI and we're not putting ads in there. 

[00:50:44] Brian: Oh, come on, come on, come on. I gotta play the Troy here. Let's, let's not be

naive. 

[00:50:49] Alex: but, sure. But like, I think it's also, but, but fine. But every, everything, I think this type of stuff is fair to me. It shows that also, like, I, I kind of agree with Ben Thompson. If, if they were going to do ads, they should have done ads when they didn't have any competition, you know, when they were the only game in town, and then people would've been become very used to it, nobody would've complained.

doing it now feels very kind of knee jerky and a response to, to something. And I think that they've also cultivated, big tech companies are also not very trusted, I don't think. Sam Altman is a very trustworthy individual. people give a lot of information to the AI and they should be worried about advertising happening in there.

Like, it, it doesn't, it doesn't even matter to me that they're not going to put advertising straight into the answers. I think you could see the algorithms being tweaked in minor ways to say, you know, like. If you, if you recommend a recipe, recommend a recipe that includes an ingredient to which we can put an ad up against, and, and it is, it is.

Is it, is it, it's not an add in the thing. It's, it's, 

[00:51:51] Brian: you 

know, 

what they, you know what they, you know what would be a really good pro? Do you remember? Paid inclusion? In early search, like the, the, the search indexing was not exact, right? It didn't get to like all pages.

And so they came up, and this is a, this is a great scam. They came up with paid inclusion, which was like, we will index you, give us a feed, we will index like all those things.

And so are we putting, this is just giving you the opportunity to be ranked in the search results.

And it was controversial at the time. Look, smart was a big player in paid inclusion for, for the old heads out there. but you know, this was, this was part of the model. I I, you know, I don't think they will go down that path of, of something like paid inclusion, right?

Because, and it will end up, this is a tricky one because like as we said before. In some ways, they have to not be native, right? Like they're gonna have what is in essence, almost a display ad product instead of the normal thing, which was like, search was so powerful because honestly, you can't tell the difference between like the paid results and, and the, the organic results.

[00:53:00] Alex: Yeah. And I think, I think, look, you have to look at incentives and, and, and the incentives inside these companies where you're gonna have a group of very smart, very highly paid people whose, success at the company is gauged on how much they can make the advertising business work at a company that's hemorrhaging money.

Right? And they're being told, well, you know, there's this kind of like, you know, blood brain barrier or whatever you wanna call it, which is like, we don't touch the AI stuff and these people are going to be incentivized to get as close to that as possible without breaking that boundary. Right? And we don't know the repercussions of that.

And I can tell you, it, it doesn't end at a place where you feel like you're gonna get completely, you know, free, free of like, corruption answers from chat GPT. So I think good on Claude. it's not entirely true with the way things work now, but they also say ads are coming. It's, it's a sign 

[00:53:52] Brian: Yeah. I'm gonna, I'm gonna channel TR Troy here. Okay. You're being an elitist,

okay? Because ads are how you democratize the distribution of

this. This is, these are global products. Sam Altman came back their, their CMO, I mean, I guess to her credit clearly used AI in, in her response, but fine, you know, they had a talking point that, that chat, GBT has more, free users in Texas than, than Claude does in, in globally.

[00:54:23] Alex: absolutely fine. And 

[00:54:25] Brian: And they clearly want to be McDonald's. They want to serve everyone. And if, if Claude and Anthropic have different business models. Power to B2B that allows them to do other things and look with how Claude is positioning in itself with that think campaign and whatnot, it's clearly trying to become the sort of New Yorker tote bag of these AI engines.

Right? These

[00:54:50] Alex: I think it's also, a lane, right? It's a lane. And they can say, if you don't want this stuff, you can come to us. And it is, you know, in, in many respects, like a product that I trust more for, for, for a bunch of different reasons. And there's going to be, they might end up with like, you know, maybe 5% of what OpenAI does.

But, either way, I think it's the right time to do it. OpenAI is, you know, complaining about a Claude. What's likely going to happen is the elephant in the room here is Google, right? Who's going to be eating away at the scale stuff? And OpenAI is going to be eating away as at the B2B and professional stuff.

I mean, atropic is going to be open. 

[00:55:28] Brian: a hundred percent. And 

and you know what? Honestly, chat bet they, they, and this is me and my bias, you know, they, they poured everything into this codex. It seems like when they're in their, in their code red, and the, the chat chatbot has gotten worse.

Like the personality's terrible. The, like writing is rif, like, and I think it's grading on people, not just me. I could be wrong, but just the fact that Anthropic used the, like, the hokey diction and like the, the, it's not this, it's that stuff, which is problem with, with all of these chat bots, to me, like speaks to. The, since, what is it, G PT five count. Like it isn't that, it hasn't improved that much to me. Like, and I'm not coding with it, so like, I don't know, but like, it, it hasn't actually to me gotten all that better in, in, in interacting with it on a regular basis. But like, let's, let's actually, let's move on to, to good product.

'cause I know you do have to go.


[00:56:28] Good Product
---

[00:56:28] Brian: ​

I have an entry with good product because I, I was in New Orleans for three days. As I said, I didn't get out in about too much. I like New Orleans as a city. I think it's a classic American city. new Orleans is one of the few places where I go and like someone, you know, in a service situation can call me baby.

And like, I, I think it's fine. I don't mind being called baby in New

Orleans. It's great. 

[00:56:56] Alex: if that happened in 

[00:56:57] Brian: If it happened in like New York, I'd be like, what the fuck are you

talking about? good. Great culture there. Great food.

[00:57:03] Alex: still need to go because I, I, I, I love to see this kind of, you know, I think there's, you know, this, this French culture that came to America and some of them went south, you know, and some of them went north to Acadia and, and the Acadians up north have very little food culture. And then the one that went down there, like have this very amazing food culture.

And I want to sample all of that. it is said that a lot of, kind of the, even the language and the words are very old French. and so I love that stuff, man. 

[00:57:33] Brian: Yeah, yeah. No, it's, it is, it is a great city. I, the food is, is great. And here's my, my good product on the food scene is there's this sandwich called the famous Furie that's sold at this place, mothers. it's amazing. It's a great sandwich. It involves like three different kinds of meat, a coleslaw pickles.

But

then what they, what they do is they drown it in a ju sauce, and

they call it like debris. You get little bits of the, like roast beef. I I definitely, my life expectancy might did not go up, but.

[00:58:07] Alex: dipping bread in sauces is something that I realize that I do because it's so French ingrained. Like even when you finish a salad, you take some of the bread and you soak up that, that kind of like salad dressing. and I, I do that and sometimes people think that I'm crazy, but it's nice to see it kind of like commercialized, like that.

Is it one of those sandwiches though that the, the one thing pet peeve about American sandwiches too big. When it's too big, you can't really eat it properly, it 

falls apart. Is it, 

[00:58:34] Brian: don't, don't, your 

[00:58:36] Alex: sandwich should have structure. 

Yeah. I, I have a good product 

[00:58:39] Brian: strong. Wait, wait. One last thing, one last thing on that, then I'll give you your thing. you mentioned like the, the wiping up, sauce. Do you know, scarpetta? That is, it's it's little shoe in Italian, and it is a term for like the, the little leftover, is it, it's soaking up the leftover sauce with just like a nub of bread. I did it like, and

my, my wife complains about me doing this and like, I was like, this is like culturally important to like Italian. And we were in Italy and I was like wiping up some sauce with the bread, knowing that it was bothering my wife. And the guy came by and he was like, oh, Zel shoe.

[00:59:19] Alex: Yeah, no, it's one of the many little pleasures in life and and I'm glad you participate in that. It's fantastic.

[00:59:25] Brian: All right. What's yours?

[00:59:26] Alex: can you hear it?

All right. this is the, orchid by telepathic instruments. It's really hard to get, I, I, you know, they, he does, they do drops there, like small production. It's a tiny little, portable synthesizer. And, it, it, it'll help you kind of by giving you chord ideas and, and make music. it was, designed, in partnership with a musician called Tame Impala.

Very popular musician. you know, it's, it's, it's plastic. It's, it's a little synthesizer. All of this stuff, by the way, you can do on a computer for sure, right? Like, but, it's a reminder. 

[01:00:05] Brian: to do it on that little

[01:00:06] Alex: Well, it's a reminder that like creative expression is, is really also about feel and about about the experience that you have with an object.

and I think this is why I like to buy instruments, even though everything can be done on a computer and it's a reminder that, you know, as everything in our life becomes digitized, it is sometimes nice and, and, and I think you create a different output. if you sit down at a typewriter or you use a camera or you pick up a little synthesizer 

[01:00:34] Brian: Yeah, 

[01:00:34] Alex: guitar or, or a 

pen, 

pen. 

[01:00:35] Brian: go acoustic sometimes.

[01:00:37] Alex: You just, different things come out. Like, it's, it's, it's the, the tool is such, is such a device for, the, the selection of like what comes out creatively from you. I, I don't know if it, if that makes sense, but it is like a filter of whatever you're feeling and, and what comes out is different than if you sit at a computer.

and computers are fine, but you know, this is a fun little device. So if you have, you know, a few hundred dollars burning your pocket and you can wake up at midnight when the drops happen, you can make music.

[01:01:07] Brian: All right. We should sell that in the PVA boutique

[01:01:11] Alex: Oh yeah, for 

[01:01:12] Brian: along with branded merch just like Epstein. All right, on that note,

[01:01:17] Alex: Alright,


[01:01:18] Outro
---

[01:01:18] Troy: That's it for this episode of people versus algorithms where each week we uncover patterns shaping media culture and technology. Big thanks as always to our producer, Vanja Arsenov. She always makes us a little clearer and more understandable and we appreciate her very, very much. If you're enjoying these conversations, we'd love for you to leave us a review.

It helps us get the word out and keeps our community growing. Remember, you can find People vs. Algorithms on Apple Podcasts, on Spotify, and now on YouTube. Thanks for listening and we'll see you again next week.

[01:01:52] Brian: this is fun. Thanks Alex. See you next week.

[01:01:54] Alex: see you next week. 

