PvA S3E138
===

​

[00:00:01] Troy: You mind if I call you Al? 

[00:00:03] Alex: your whole situation's pretty Boomer already, so you might as well, 

[00:00:06] Troy: Speaking of boomers, what's up? philandering Brian? 

[00:00:10] Brian: philandering? Yeah. Some news that I don't 

know. 

[00:00:14] Alex: Are 

[00:00:14] Troy: He's out there cheating on us in podcast land.

[00:00:17] Alex: I know he didn't even mention this once

[00:00:19] Troy: No. And he didn't even mention us.

[00:00:21] Brian: Well, that was with my other podcast. 

[00:00:23] Troy: yeah. And for, you know,

don't mention the, the podcast that made you 

[00:00:26] Brian: No. I always mention, I say the other podcast I do. That's what I call it.

​

[00:00:52] Troy: Hey, listen, one thing that you wrote in 

[00:00:54] Brian: your in immutable email this week took me back, man, I. gotta tell you$500,000 microsites? Did I get that right?

Or you YI mean more 

[00:01:03] Troy: actually. So I, I lived through both of those eras and you talked, you compared 

the time of digital agency 

making digital agencies making expensive websites. To the present.

Right? And, and to how it seems ridiculous now that people would've spent that much money to build, you know, their, their, their place on the internet. What was, what struck me is how many of these new things we had to navigate. and Alex will remember this, at at what was called Video Egg, when I went there and worked with Matt Sanchez, who's now the,

the COO of Yahoo, 

[00:01:39] Alex: I saw him yesterday. I saw a lot of video

eggs. See all 'em Yesterdays at a 

[00:01:44] Brian: They got Diplo to play at their beach in can.

[00:01:47] Troy: at Yahoo. Yeah. But here was the thing, when we started, I. 

When we started selling 

this, Alex was living, we sell, it 

started. So we had a video platform. 

There was very unsavory stuff being uploaded there. It never existed before, like a distributed

video platform, and we didn't know what people would put on it right? 

[00:02:05] Brian: Oh no. Yeah, go figure.

nascent. Yeah, there was a lot of corking.It's a cultural artifact of I had to figure out how to build an 

[00:02:13] Troy: ad product around it, where pre-roll didn't make a lot of sense. So we had to, you have a video player and only a video player on a page, so you had to put something on top of the video player and, and package it in a way that made it feel new and palatable to media buyers. So at the time, nobody was selling. Social anything.

So rather than kind of hide from it, I tried to make social a virtue in how we package that media. And then I had Alex try to make the brand what was originally the video egg brand. It became the same media brand to make it feel like something that consumers

could hug and love and, you know, that felt friendly.

[00:02:57] Brian: It was, it was the best branding in

Ad Tech. and I'm not saying it because you guys are on my, 

[00:03:02] Alex: Oh, thank you.

[00:03:03] Troy: we've, we've mentioned this before, but, but what was amazing is I 

remember going to, into so many media buyers, And media executives, offices in them sinks. so you're, gonna put advertising on social. Are you insane? You can only put 

[00:03:18] Brian: Well, it's, that's 

[00:03:19] Troy: media. 

[00:03:20] Brian: Yeah. 

[00:03:20] Troy: you well, it was u 

gc, right? and And I, I didn't dare, I mean, maybe we did call it UGC at the time, but anyway, the point 

is, is the point that you made, which is a remarkable one, is that UGC is far and away now the biggest category in advertising.

[00:03:35] Brian: Yeah. Well, it doesn't even really

exist. I don't think you can. I think it's time to 

[00:03:39] Troy: But what was the what was the stat though, 

Brian? You put it in your email this week? 

[00:03:44] Brian: oh, well, group m

well, I'm sorry. WPP Media, they did their regular ad spend, your

report, and they may, you know, dividing these things up is

ridiculous and. A lot of people seized on the idea that 'cause it's a stat that more money is being advertised against on user-generated content platforms than professionally produced content platforms.

And they count YouTube as it's, the whole

thing is these dividing lines are so artificial. They're so artificial. It's just media media's, media. 

[00:04:16] Troy: Well, I was taken back to the 

good old magazine days and I think because I, it's, it's memoir month in the Troy Young household. So I'm finishing my third memoir,

[00:04:28] Brian: Keith McNally, uh, 

you've got, let me guess your memoirs that you

have. You've got Keith McNally, you've got Gray And Carter and

[00:04:38] Troy: Barry Diller.

[00:04:39] Brian: Okay. Yeah, the Mary Di. I've got two of the three 

[00:04:44] Troy: So maybe the grading Carter one is the most annoying. The Keith McDowell one is kind of lovely about you. You know, he's had a lot of experiences and, you know, came back from, a really tragic, stroke and I, and I think, you know, is the most kind of honest of all of them. the, the Grayden Carter one feels like, you know, a book that's written by a Conde Nat editor. Which is what he, you know, I mean, it, what what one of the things that's really remarkable in that book is what I mean, I mean, it's just so different than the Hearst culture, but not just the amount of money they spent, but what they had to do to build the Vanity Fair Oscar party into the franchise.

It became, and just, you know, both like, kind of how smart they were about it and getting connected in Hollywood.how much money they spent, how patient they were, you, you know, how the event itself was just like painstakingly orchestrated and casted and, and, how it's much more than just like, oh, vanity Fair has an event called the Oscar party.

Like, you know, it's like the Met Ball is to vogue. It's, it's a fundamental part of the media brand.

[00:05:57] Brian: Yeah, and they're new. they're not calling him an editor in chief, but basically he is their new editor, their new top editor. Mark Gucci is, I think, a big, from what I, I don't know him, but a lot of, a lot of why he is in is because he's good at that part of the business, and I think that is telling

[00:06:14] Troy: I, I think his accomplishment was building, what is it called? Globe, Vogue World.

[00:06:19] Brian: Vogue World. Yeah.

[00:06:21] Troy: Yeah.

[00:06:21] Brian: During the, like NFT thing. It was, it was like a, it was like a metaverse experience. Like, I think we, we've all just chosen to forget that part of the pandemic.but yeah, I think that's a big part of why, you know, he got the job. It's a global editorial director now, and you gotta manage the brand.

It's actually something to, to, to plug,Hearst, a little bit. It's something that I'm gonna be discussing with Willa Bennett, and Lisa Ryan at the Hearst House at 

[00:06:47] Troy: She's the cool editor in the building. I think she's doing a cool job with Cosmo.

[00:06:51] Brian: Yeah. She's on a dating show. Do you know that? I mean, this is the new world of like, magazine. I mean, you're, you're the steward of a brand. You're not an editor necessarily. I mean, you are, but you gotta do all kinds of different things because the business has changed, which we're gonna talk about this week.

I, my voice is really deep today. Oh, one one. one note 

[00:07:15] Troy: Sexy. Actually. It's nice. I

[00:07:16] Brian: Yeah, it's nice. It's like, you know, sleeping, sleeping on a plane will do that for you. one note on, Keith Mcna. I went to, one of his, his restaurants Uhand, a couple days ago, and he's got the book at the register like, or at the, like, you know, host counter or whatever.

And then when they bring you the bill, it comes with a, a postcard of the book. 

So 

[00:07:41] Troy: That's a

part of the, part of the formula. Yeah.

[00:07:44] Brian: you know, everyone's in the hustle. That was my, that was my big takeaway. Well, didn't he have that famous postcard? was that his, of the three women standing naked in front of the bar at one of his restaurants,

Did he 

[00:07:56] Troy: he wrote about it in the memoir. Yeah. And then they, first they casted models and he's like, what is this? No one cares. Bring me real women. So they, the, it's like a famous image.

[00:08:06] Brian: Oh, 

[00:08:07] Troy: He's an interesting guy. He did, he's done a lot of interesting in his life. But he, you know, he's, he's had some ups and downs, which is, is, fun to read about.

[00:08:15] Brian: I like his Instagram captions. He's good at that. 

[00:08:18] Troy: Mm-hmm. 

He picks fights, that kind of thing. couple. So we're gonna go over a bunch of thi Actually no. I'm supposed to introduce everyone. I don't care

whether you. introduce 

[00:08:28] Alex: No, I think 

you should intro. Go ahead.

do you know? But you know what? You know what?

[00:08:33] Troy: before. Just a minute. Alex.

Before you, like sweating. I, I don't, I don't like to, I don't like, can you give me feedback later?

No, I, it's not that I want to give you feedback. I just want to ask you to do something, which is tell people what's gonna come up in the episode. I

[00:08:48] Brian: That's what I'm gonna do. Okay. All right. We've got a lot to cover today. and I think that was a great intro into this, right? Because we're gonna be talking about a few things. One is the, apple had their w. Ww DC you know, they're big developer event, and they came out with, you know, their massive advancements in ai.

No, actually they didn't. They came up with their new design system and luckily we have a renowned designer with us. And so,and, 

[00:09:19] Troy: It's great to be, it's great to be here.

[00:09:23] Brian: And so I wanted to get Alex's

take on this. He, he tried to like, beg

off and be like well, I haven't like, seen it yet. And then I had to remind him that this is a podcast that he's supposed to,

uh, No. I mean, I think you should also remind the audience of who's on this podcast. I think you get, you're both. Let's take this seriously. Troy's got his boomer blurry background on, and you refuse to say who's on the podcast. You know when you were on the you, when you were on the other guy's podcast, what's his name?

[00:09:53] Alex: Peter Kafka. I think he repeated all your names many times. I think I heard many names. I heard the rebooting repeated many times. I heard clarification of who was on it. I didn't hear people versus algorithms once, but 

[00:10:06] Brian: Again, it That's a

[00:10:08] Alex: This is Brian Morrissey. Hey guys. Welcome to our podcast.

[00:10:13] Brian: All right. welcome to People versus Algorithms. yeah, exactly. welcome to People versus Algorithms. I'm Brian Marcy, joined by Troy Young

and Alex Schleifer. We have a great show today. we're gonna go over,

[00:10:27] Troy: We got a bang. It's a banger. It's a It's a banger. We're all wearing

a, it's a, it, it, it, it, 

you know, I'm back a

which is which I, you know, I can't even listen to

[00:10:37] Alex: Also emotionally. Oh, you can't, well, of course you can't. Troy, like

anybody could have told you that. That's, that's a very, you know, in a science of like ego egomaniacs, that's I think number one 

[00:10:48] Troy: Yeah. You know what? I'm a long way from an 

egomaniac, Alex, to be honest, but maybe an egomaniac with A massive inferiority 

complex. But,

[00:10:56] Alex: that's, you know,

[00:10:57] Brian: Most egomaniacs 

[00:10:59] Alex: that's 

[00:10:59] Troy: that's how my mother, that's how my mother used to de 

well, that's how my mother used 

to define alcoholics.

[00:11:07] Brian: Anyway, we're gonna go over, Apple's big developer event, but particularly their

design system. I'm interested in it 'cause I don't get it, but

you know, I think a lot of people are hating on

it and I think Alex will have a much more nuanced view of 

[00:11:21] Troy: You know, Brian, I'm so over ai. 

I'm 

so over.

ai. Br bring on the

liquid design. 

[00:11:29] Brian: Bring on the liquid design. Um,

and then we are also going

to, going to go over what's going

on at Warner Brothers Discovery. it was Alex's, Alex might be ru

[00:11:40] Troy: but we wouldn't,

we're gonna, we're gonna argue about it anyway. 

[00:11:43] Brian: Alex might be in line to run it, I think at this point, and I wanna talk about the link economy,

and

this is something

that every single publisher is, is dealing with belatedly. And maybe we can discuss why they didn't see the writing on the wall for this. But the end is na And I think that's pretty obvious. Does that sound good? I wanted to 

[00:12:09] Troy: uh, sounds like a hell of an 

episode, Brian. I'm very excited for to, to be 

[00:12:13] Brian: I wanted to, I wanted to, 

[00:12:15] Troy: Where, where are you

exactly? Why don't we start there? Where are you 

[00:12:19] Brian: I'm in Kim. It is a Italian fishing village near, it's on the Legian coast, so it's near

Genoa.

[00:12:26] Troy: Is Ben

[00:12:27] Brian: Perhaps You know them for their salami

[00:12:30] Alex: Yes.

[00:12:32] Brian: world. Famous for, for their salamis

and other meets. lovely place. and I've actually been here before. Driving in Italy. Can I just say driving in Italy is,

is is an experience. I've driven in Italy a

fair bit, but you gotta, you could never pull this stuff off in the United States. There are roads that are two ways, but they're not, there's not enough room

for two cars and you just have to figure it out. 

You just have all about, it's, it's, it, it's all about, it's all about posturing. You need to show that you're ready to fly off the road if the other person doesn't

[00:13:02] Alex: move away. 

Yeah. It's, it's insanity. but I've, I've grown comfortable with it. I've grown very comfortable with it. grew up, I grew up in a Mediterranean, I mean, used to this agro style of driving when I moved to California. Everyone's so nice here

And yet, and the second anyone does anything to annoy you, people go into a fit of rage. 

[00:13:21] Troy: I was just in Regina, 

Alex, where I learned to drive and my daughter and I, jaywalked and someone gave us the finger, which seems so 

backward. 

[00:13:30] Alex: as Canadians do that.

[00:13:32] Brian: Wow.

[00:13:33] Troy: Yeah. But

I mean, you, you, you know how to, you grew up with a donkey, didn't you?

[00:13:38] Alex: Yes. Let's leave it at that. so let's move on.

[00:13:43] Brian: Let's move on. I, one quick note. I don't know if you saw, Sam Altman came out with a, a blog post, in which he again, talk again talking about how AI is going to like, revolutionize the world and et cetera, et cetera. But he had an interesting thing in there where he said, it's the time for the ideas guys.

And that ideas guys were always sort of looked down upon in Silicon Valley. But now with like, with super intelligence as a service, it is time for ideas guys to, to shine.

[00:14:15] Troy: Is it idea guys or ideas guys?

[00:14:19] Brian: I think they're just, they're most idea guys have multiple ideas. Alex, you're closer to this, right? Is this Would you say Are idea guys are idea guys looked down, down upon.

[00:14:31] Alex: A derogatory term, like an idea guy is

[00:14:34] Brian: usually somebody who just can't finish. Right. Well, you're just the idea guy. I was once called a figurehead. Hmm. you know, role,

[00:14:45] Alex: yeah, no, I think, yeah, no, I think it's usually derogatory. It's, it's used a lot, with product managers, which is, you

[00:14:55] Brian: but so our product guys, because we talked about product, product people, and he said the guy, so I'm just gonna go, this is not gendered, this is just, I just have to go with it for consistencies. are product guys better than ideas? Guys idea guys.

[00:15:09] Alex: I mean, I don't, I don't, I, I don't, I don't know what I mean. These are all terms, that

we've invented. Look, the, only thing you need to know is that I idea guy. Idea person is the

thing that's usually used in a derogatory term. And product person is usually, used in a way to elevate someone. So like when you say, oh, this person's a real product thinker, it means that they have good ideas to build things that get built. and when you say somebody's an idea guy, it means that they're fickle and they keep changing their mind.

[00:15:39] Brian: Yeah, I sense a backlash

to this stuff because I think people really, I think people object to

the idea that craft is gonna 

be subsumed 

[00:15:48] Troy: I mean, I think it's, 

[00:15:50] Brian: vibe coding, vibe

coding is, is is the front end of this because you starting to see the backlash that like, oh, big deal, you

vibe, co vibe coded an app that you don't even know if it needs to be connected to.

a database, et cetera.

And, I don't know. I think, I think the vibe, marketing, vibe, coding, everything being vibe, whatever

is, it's a, war on craft and. 

[00:16:12] Troy: the the nice one this week was by hacking, which I thought was good. But, idea 

guys are big in agencies, like Dave Lubar was an idea guy, and that was fine. But if you're an idea guy at Google, you, you, you, you have no status.

Yeah, I mean, I think we also, that's why like. Firms like IDEO and Frog, and the rest of those were, I often looked down on from within, the walls of a tech company. Like, you know, I mean, I, I, I saw Ideo like, do the future of the ATM machine presentation, like eight times and ATM still suck. Like, you know, it's just,Yeah, but they invented your most, Alex.

[00:16:55] Alex: They did ideo

[00:16:56] Troy: Mm-hmm.

[00:16:57] Alex: Well, I didn't know that.

[00:16:59] Troy: Yeah. Well, you learn something new. Every podcast.

[00:17:02] Brian: Yeah, but they were always talking about like reinventing the hospital room and all these kind of things that never it, they were And, and, you know, and, and, and, and the me the myth of Silicon Valley is that these are people that actually go in and disrupt stuff a lot of times, you know, that is true, but a lot of it is also hot air. But let's make it, more factual for the audience. This is, we're we're talking semantics?

Okay, let's get into, let's get into the, the nitty gritty of like, of liquid, of liquid glass.

[00:17:29] Alex: Oh, do you wanna start there? Yeah, it's a good place to start.

[00:17:32] Brian: so Apple held the big it's big developer event and it came up with, it came out with, its, its new design system for iOS 26. This is, I believe its biggest like design update in a decade. it adds a lot of

transparency, and it seems to me to be

divisive among non-designers at least, 

[00:17:56] Alex: Yeah. 

[00:17:57] Brian: it doesn't seem like it's an improvement.

It seems like, it's a nightmare to be able to, to read anything. it

Everything's

laid on top of what's in the background, and I'm trying to understand what, what a, a professional designer, how you would look at what they're trying

to do here, and also within the context of doing a design system within a company with that kind of scale like

[00:18:22] Alex: Yeah, I'm gonna, maybe I'll, I, I'll, I'll, I'll go through my critique of the design system really quickly, because I think it's, it's, it's maybe less interesting, than the, than kind of the broader context. This is all happening under. so the, the design system, I don't know if, if, if, you know folks are old enough to remember when iOS seven launched,you know, that was a big Johnny, ive move, Johnny, ive had taken over software and hardware design at the time, and they were going away from what was called skew amorphism, which are things that looked like wood and felt and paper, and they were going through this entirely flat design.

you know, years on it. It really became kind of the standard across applications, right? It was actually a pretty big movement, but the first version of it was an absolutely disaster. I mean, they, they had to roll stuff back. Even, you know, after the beta launched and then it really took a few versions of IRS to become,you know, the version we use today, which is 

[00:19:18] Troy: We were delighted at the time. Alex, though, to depart from like

[00:19:22] Alex: We were, yeah, yeah. Conceptually, conceptually delighted that the cheesy leather bound notebook was going away because a lot of designers, people that were like, especially into like, you know, Swiss design or, or, or, or you know, you know, Japanese design were like, you know, this, this looks, this looks cheesy.

so, so this one is, you know, I've tested it. It's a, it's, it's, I think it's a disaster at the moment. The, the, the whatever you can get in beta. And it's not just a disaster because, you know, these things always have bugs and they always kind of glitch and they're always a little slower. All of that stuff's gonna be ironed out.

I think it is just like a usability disaster where I have, I have struggled reading things. I struggle to figure out how mail works. I struggled to switch tabs in, in Iowa, in, in the browser. Like these are like just really basic functions. yeah, I think it's, I think it's, I think it's, it's really hard to read, especially when you're outdoors.

it's, they've, they've really messed with kind of core functionality, like moving between tabs where you can also slide stuff and, and you know, they're doing that kind of refractive things and they showed people, you know, on tables with these. Know glass bubbles, moving them around to see how they are.

And it is very cool because, you know, when you look at something through glass, there's a refraction and there's distortion that happens. But when you actually, like in practice scrolling to something, it adds so much noise and motion that your eye keeps going there. And I am surprised that they launch this, but maybe less surprised because it feels like apple's in a scramble.

That started a couple of years ago and it started with the Vision Pro. you know, being sold as the future of computing. This new interface is really based on the Vision Pro interface. It works really nicely in the Vision Pro, less well here. and then all the AI stuff that was announced, I think in a hurry.

And it looks like this looks like a company that, that is somewhat derailed and needs to kind of get back on track. And this was them saying like, this wasn't a particularly, This is the, this is the, this is the, event that they should have had a year ago instead of announcing all that AI stuff and the, and the fake series stuff that never materialized.

and, and it feels like, it feels like it's, it's, it's, it's, it's kind of off center a little bit and it still feels rushed. So, and this is a myth, like, and I can tell you, I, I listen and follow a lot of podcasts, that are, you know, from the spectrum of sycophantic with Apple all the way to, you know, critical, but with a lot of love.

and the reception has been broadly negative, both under design, also on the tone, which is like, I think people are getting tired of this hyper produced version of it. and also the fact that it was, it was really, they did something interesting. They started to hold. This WDC, the Worldwide Developer Conference, and they started, and their, their, you know, the relationship between Apple and developers is fraught, you know, for, for various reasons, the lawsuits, the linking and all that stuff.

but they started the whole presentation with basically an ad for their one movie. You know, they always have a little intro stuff, and it was an ad for the F1 movie. And so starting and, and, and one of the criticisms that, you know, developers have is that Apple is all in on services and doesn't care about developers anymore.

So starting with an Apple TV presentation was, was kind of odd. and yeah, no, I think, I think it's a company that's, that's searching to reground itself, you know, get back in the hearts of developers, but at the same time fighting for, for everything. It's fighting for. yeah, but it seemed a little off kilter.

And I, I am. I hope they walk a lot of this stuff back that they did in this version, because I'm not looking forward to, to using that. And I usually am an early adopter and very excited to try this stuff out.

[00:23:20] Brian: So, so you, you've done design systems in these kind of large companies, like, like Airbnb. Like how, how hard is it to actually do something like these? Because I guess like seeing the demos, I've been like, I would think I. Wait, didn't anyone look at this and be like, you can't read anything Like, this is obviously not gonna, be great.

So I'm just interested in like how difficult it is to, to, to come out with a system like this within that context.

[00:23:48] Alex: Look, caveat there's building a system for an operating system, which is a system where everything lives is exponentially more difficult than what I did, which was just like for, you know, a, a set of apps, right? But it was always, I mean, I think just like I, I, you know, I mean, you know, they have their design leadership team, I had mine, and there's, there's definitely kind of philosophy applied to that.

And to me it's always been really important to have contrast. Like I just find stuff that don't, that lack contrast in general, ugly. I have a tendency of pulling this stuff back and increasing the contrast and, not using a lot of like, fuzzy things, but that's, you know, that's like a, a design, it's like, it's like having different designers at fashion brands.

It, it dictates the style of this thing. So stylistically there's, there's already a difference. But yeah, it's, it's striking actually this time how bad this is and how much it, it was made to look good for a presentation and then. Then when I was looking at that, I was like, yeah, that looks good here, but what if the photo in the background is a different color or moving, does that mean the bar is going to keep changing color to adjust to it?

I was like, nah, they gotta have to figure that out. And it's like, no, it does that. Like the bar with continue, like as you go, as you scroll through photos and once bright and once dark, the, the, the bar behind it will continuously like adjust and change color, which is really impressive, but in, but keeps drawing your eye there and, and just adding so much noise.

I don't know, I think somebody just fell in love with it and I think the visual updates they did for all their AI stuff is also I think generally like not great. They have all these blurry, glowy gradients appearing everything and and it's just, you know, apple has a few people making the decisions and maybe they made the wrong decisions and maybe they sidelined a little bit of the accessibility folks.

Look, it's Apple. They're gonna have a lot of accessibility tools to make this more readable, but that's like basically losing the battle. Say like, you know, if you, if your eyesight isn't super great, you're gonna get the ugly version of this. You know, that's just like, just scaled back. But I don't know, I, I could go on about it.

It, it just to me shows a sign of like Apple being a little bit more, off kilter and they, they put up a brave face. They mentioned that like, Siri isn't perfect enough for us to release it, but, you know, they didn't go through the fact that they literally showed baked demos that people in the company hadn't even seen just a year ago.

and they're gonna have a lot of work to do to get back. And, and, and the thing is like, it's all self-inflicted and they're gonna be fine. but it's self-inflicted, but they're going to be fine. So, I don't know. Yeah.

[00:26:26] Brian: Yeah. And I think the bigger question, and, and Troy, you have an opinion on this, is whether this is, you know, part of, you know, we, we did this with Apple about like whether or not like they're going through a period of decline. I mean, the, the, the economists had compared the to Nokia, which is not a good thing at all.

And, and you know, a lot of that was, was is a, which is a, it's a

So like this,

[00:26:50] Alex: a crazy take by the way. It's such a, I I think that take is so stupid. 'cause Apple doesn't need to be, apple released a lot of really interesting things. They're gonna let developers use their, like the AI models that exist on the phone. This is like great stuff.

They don't even need to build the ai, they just need to do, you know, that we need to work with open AI and perplexity and do their thing. And they're still the 

[00:27:12] Troy: The, the, no, the the Economist take is kind of

dumb. Listen, I, I, if, if, if there is gonna be a device that's gonna turn Apple into Nokia, I can't wait to see it.

[00:27:22] Alex: I mean, it's not gonna be a, you know, io, the IO thing, the, I, I remain, somebody still 

[00:27:28] Troy: Can I give you like a different take though, Alex? Not, I mean, I, I really respect your, your, your, your critique of, of the operating system and I've not seen it. I think that if it was good, it would be good because. We spend so much time obsessing over details of the hardware, but we spend all our time visual, you know, interacting

[00:27:51] Alex: Oh, yeah. A hundred percent agree.

[00:27:52] Troy: and if we can come up with a design language that feels tactile, right, that feels like it exists somewhere between software and hardware, you know, I think that's really cool if, if, you know, I can admire the inter, you know, if I can really enjoy the, you know, kind of interaction models that I use on my phone.

'cause I spend so much time on it. God bless the other stuff that they put into the release. Like, you know, polls in chat or chat background or call screening or live translation all seem to me by like to, to seemed to me to be things that I would like Apple to do. I. To extend the utility of their platform in ways that doesn't aspire to kind of create super intelligence.

Like it's just

useful stuff.

Right? And I, and I'm, and I'm totally happy to use Gemini or chat GBT as an application model inside of my phone and not expect Siri to do that. Fuck sir. I don't care. Like, you know

Siri, 

[00:28:56] Alex: it's, but it's absolutely the right, I mean, Siri could also, it's 

[00:29:00] Troy: Siri is never gonna be chat GPT ever. It will never be as good.

[00:29:07] Alex: because they can't, because they can't 

[00:29:09] Troy: because they're so far behind,

[00:29:11] Alex: But it doesn't even matter, even if they weren't 

[00:29:13] Troy: don't have the talent,

[00:29:14] Alex: They, they Apple cannot currently, I mean, just with their, privacy, the way they take on privacy, the way they control every messaging, like chat, CPT will tell you crazy shit, right? And that's be, and that OpenAI brand absorbs it.

Right now. Apple's brand doesn't absorb it and they don't need to. Like, they should. They, they, they own the interface. The phone is here to stay. they just need to make sure that like the iPhone is the best way to use chat, GPT. Great. Give me a button to chat. GPT. Great. I, I really feel though if, if I'm, if like, if I'm a little, I, I, I think that the reason this UI looks the way it does, because it's a very, very high technical achievement, they're doing full glass rendering, is because I think that there was a mandate, and I'm, I'm being, I mean this is a little bit of a conspiracy theory, but I think there was a mandate of saying, you know, everything looks the same.

Everybody copies us. We need something that. Only Apple can do and only the 

[00:30:14] Troy: I don't think that's a conspiracy theory. I think that's obvious. I

[00:30:16] Alex: Okay, wait. And then only Apple can do is it needs to push the boundaries graphically of what can happen. One of the most difficult things to do is to create realistic refraction of light and stuff like that. And, and the only way you can do it is if you control the software stack and the hardware stack.

It is entirely true. That is, it is nearly impossible to unanimous unanimously recreate this on, on Android devices because they, they won't have the, there's too many variables, et cetera. So this is very much a, a, if you want to think that only Apple can do it, is that, but also like, I think, I, I think there needs to be some change where Apple, but, but once again, it's also a lot of work for developers that are feeling more and more like the deal isn't fair and it's, it's, it's, it's not 

[00:30:59] Troy: One other cautionary note though, Alex, I, I do recall when Johnny, I created the design system that replaced the Steve Jobs one. There was a lot of issues and the, it took, it took a little bit of time to iron it out, but it

[00:31:12] Alex: They will, they will fix the issues. They will fix the issues. I think this, the state of this, like conceptually is, is, is just worse because, the other one was, was very much like a visual system. It's still kind of clearly communicated what was going to happen. There was contrast issues, et cetera. I, I don't know, maybe I'm just like a different person.

I'm more cynical, but I feel a little bit, I, they will fix it, but I think that they will have to scale a lot of this. like they will have to walk back a lot of this stuff and to me it's not whether or not they'll fix it or not. It's just, it's just this, a signal of apple as it is today. 

[00:31:49] Brian: Okay, let's leave it there and get onto the sad state of the media economy.

[00:31:53] Alex: Yeah.

[00:31:55] Brian: two, two aspects of that. One is cable tv. It's two aspects that are circling the drain cable TV and internet publishing. the artists formerly known as internet publishing, Brothers. Discovery is splitting up. I mean, this was sort of forecast with, the rolling back of Max. HBO max.

Apparently McKinsey made quite, quite a bit of money on, on that, which is nice to, nice to say, good work by McKinsey. and, and now they're splitting off the cable assets. And what's interesting is, I think, you know, media's entering this bad bank phase. You know, the banks used to always do this. They had a lot of toxic assets.

They would just sort of cleave off the toxic assets into a bad bank and they'd be like, look, you know, the bank's fine once you take out all the toxic stuff. So they're starting to see that in, in cable. And this is another one that's been coming for a long time. I mean, that the cable TV has been an internal decline for a long time.

I, I know Troy, you are, a big defender of the job that David Lov has done, shepherding this through. gimme your take on this.

[00:33:02] Troy: Well, let's say for the purposes of this discussion, I'm that guy, but, or let's say I am that guy. You know? I, I, I hate naivety as you know.

And, and, and I think that when the prognosticators, not unlike yourselves, sit back and talk about. people in leadership positions, steering, terminally fucked media companies, even the great Mark Thompson, right, who had seemingly a magic touch at the New York Times and now, you know, is, you know, befuddled by CNN is what I would call it.

Right. You know, YII presided over a company where the cultural issues were, the business issues were the, you know, were the everyday making media issues in a, in the simple transition from print magazines to digital, whatever you want. Digital media were really overwhelming, right? And, you know, that's by the way, why I was, you know, maybe why I'm reacting to, to the grad Carter book because it just reminded me of a time that admittedly I didn't grow up with in magazines that was just like, oh my God.

So staggeringly different from the realities of media today. It's not even funny.And, and anyway, and, and the people that did it well have my great admiration, but Okay. so you got a guy who's sitting on top of, you know, all of these companies because cable networks sat sort of parasitically on top of the cable bundle in a way that they all had 50% margins, like hear stoned, a e and all of the, a e family of, of media brands with Disney and, you know, and, and a portion of, of ESPN. And it was, you know, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars of billions of dollars of profit for years and years and years. Reliable, beautiful uncontestable, all of that. And so that's what, you know, that's what paid. That's why people kind of generally looked the other way was lov because discovery was wildly profitable. And accept that when you looked into your crystal ball in maybe late, you know, call it twenty nineteen, twenty twenty, twenty, twenty one, you thought, oh my God, like this 1% of year of, audience decline against the cable bundle is gonna accelerate and we're gonna be in real trouble. And then when it, when it really hits and we can't compete for programming and we can't compete for talent. And, you know, it's just that when the wind starts to blow the other way and you're leading, you know, lead, leading a company, even if it's still profitable, it's very, very difficult. And in 2022, April of 2022, they consummated the deal to buy Warner Brothers from at and t.and just worth reminding you that, that I looked it up. At t paid $83 billion for, Warner Brothers, including HBO and the, and, and those assets, right? And if you factor debt in the enterprise, value was like a hundred and change 109 or something. Like, so, so paid a hundred billion dollars for the asset. David's Zla was like, oh my God, if we don't do something, there's no way that discovery is gonna be a streaming company. Because crossing the chasm from cable to streaming, even if you have 15 cable channels, is re is, is really, really difficult to create the flywheel of, of sort of consumer engagement that's gonna sustain an independent distribution mechanism direct to consumer. Really hard to do So, he's like, I better buy that thing. I have a $20 billion company and they paid a hundred for it. So he levers up, he gets it for $43 billion. He gets the company saddles, the new entity with a huge amount of debt. Okay. And you know, recognizing that if he didn't do that, if he didn't have HBO, if he didn't have the Warner Library, if he didn't have that head start in scream in streaming, he was done for. And what they then did is they, he was compensated,a among, you know, there were many metrics in his comp package. One of them was obviously reducing the debt, international subscription, you know, expansion, content, quality, cost reduction. That's what the board told 'em to go do. He did all that right?

He brought the debt down and then he split the company up seeing, by the way, that it was now inevitable because NBC had just done it and just discarded their, their cable assets. And by the way, through all that, he, he witnessed the struggle at the most formidable brand they had, which was CNN in terms of making a transition to something, you know, post cable, right?

A global news media brand. And so it's logical that you would then say, listen, we've got the streamer to a billion foreign in profit. It'll trade for 30 times ebitda. We could get it to 3 billion, at which point it's worth a hundred billion dollars. Someone is going to buy this brand, this library, Warner, HBO, and all the things around it. He can separate that out. He can let cable be run by the CFO, which is really what's happening. And then, and then, but guys along the way, you know, we love it. We love it when Zuck makes a hundred billion dollars. We love it when the world's richest man starts a rocket company and makes billions and billions of unimaginable, you know, pots and pots of money, right?

But when a lowly operator dare make $50 million.

[00:38:44] Brian: A mere guy, a guy, a guy that has ha ha ha has

[00:38:49] Alex: Tell it. Tell it. Troy.

[00:38:51] Troy: a dying

cable company. A dying cable company. And by the way,

you know somebody standing up for 

no, no, no, no. The rich guys that have like, you know, the, the, the new houses has owned 8% of, of, of the holding company.

There's lots of rich guys sitting around the table that have their stewards sitting on the board and on the compensation committee, Zov goes in and pulls down 50. I say more power to you. Dude. You know

what I and you know what? If you convince the comp committee, just a minute, Alex, if you can convince the comp committee and the board to pay you, and then you can hit those metrics, and then you take home 50 while they fly around in their private jets making billions,

[00:39:33] Brian: to be and like, I,

[00:39:35] Troy: don't care about the little investor.

The little investor shouldn't invest.

I don't 

[00:39:40] Brian: in ca not, definitely not, in media stocks.

[00:39:42] Troy: Yeah. I

mean, and by the way, 

if, if, if the

board or the comp committee, if the board or the, if the board doesn't like it, fire 'em. They can fire 'em.

[00:39:53] Alex: Oh, they should. but, 

[00:39:55] Troy: and then, and then I get in this conversation with you guys, that's so shockingly naive about brand architecture.

It's like, who cares?

[00:40:04] Alex: oh yeah, 

[00:40:05] Troy: Like, go talk to Scott Galloway about that.

[00:40:08] Alex: I, well, okay. Yeah. I think it's interesting that you, you, you tell Brian and I that we're so happy when Zuckerberg makes billions.

[00:40:17] Brian: I'm not, I'm happy that, that, that, that some AI like, It's good to be an AI guy. They're getting like 75 mil just to go 

[00:40:24] Troy: They're played like professional athletes.

[00:40:28] Alex: I don't care how much z love gets paid. I think,

[00:40:31] Brian: There should be trades. Silicon Valley should be able to trade

[00:40:34] Alex: we're, we're, but we're talking about a guy who like. I mean, you said, you know, people who looked into their crystal ball in 2020 or whatever the crystal ball was called a phone. And anybody with one could have seen where this was all heading.

number one. Number two, I 

[00:40:50] Troy: It's not about whether you

could figure it out. That cable was

going 

[00:40:53] Alex: I think, I think, 

[00:40:54] Troy: friend, it was figuring out what to do about it. That's

what you've not done. 

[00:40:58] Alex: you're like, you're like, who cares? Who cares When a person that runs this media company, which is a cultural product, screws with a cultural product when he's really, really good at spreadsheets, because that's what matters.

That's why how you built a hundred person company. That's not 

what did he screw with? He killed a what? He killed a a rom-com That you were,No, no, no. I mean, what was the last 12

[00:41:21] Brian: He'd be smirch, the HBO brand.

[00:41:23] Alex: HBO, let's make it max. Let's pull out Max, let's put all the discovery craft in it. Oh, no, that doesn't work.

[00:41:30] Troy: I want to queue up the podcast where you said it's not a bad idea to tuck HBO as the specialty brand under max. Just let HBO be HBO underneath of a broader brand that can accommodate all the reality tv. Next, next to it, you said that my friend.

[00:41:46] Alex: I said that, did I,

[00:41:48] Brian: We gotta vanya do we 

[00:41:51] Alex: have a clip?

[00:41:51] Brian: This is like, this is like Tim Russer moment with a clip. I don't, I I, I don't, I don't think I said that, but I, if I did, then I'll look like a fool. But I mean, it's not, it's, it's not even that like I think, I think I, I'm not, I don't even care how much money that guys make. I don't understand why people can't have an asset like HBO and even the discovery stuff, and we're still dealing with so much drama and now they, all this stuff is like, alright, that they're gonna split off the cable assets from the streaming assets.

[00:42:21] Alex: They're gonna REIT off HBO ma, HBO and the, the other stuff they renamed HBO, like this entire, the entire history of these, of these 

[00:42:30] Troy: Respectfully, what you're saying is makes no sense.

[00:42:33] Alex: why?

[00:42:34] Troy: Well, I don't understand what you're, what do you mean split? Hb? HBO is gonna be the brand for streaming.

[00:42:39] Alex: Yeah. gonna take the other stuff away.

[00:42:41] Troy: Right? They're gonna simplify it. They're gonna make it a profitable company. They're gonna sell it.

[00:42:45] Alex: Right. But, okay. What have the last five years been like? They're just going to undo all the stuff they did over the last three years.

[00:42:55] Troy: Well,

maybe. 

[00:42:58] Alex: it is like saying It is like, acquiring 

[00:43:00] Troy: Oh, I wait. 

[00:43:01] Brian: in it's like, no, it's like, it's like, oh, hey, a anonymous bankers here. 

[00:43:07] Troy: AB how, how you doing?

[00:43:09] Alex: sorry, sorry. Yeah. You just missed Troy defending Z Love.

[00:43:14] Troy: Um,AB would defend disaster love as well. Ab MA AB is very much

[00:43:20] Alex: Let me finish my point. I don't care how much SLO gets paid. Look, I live in Silicon Valley money, like it makes no sense here. Makes no sense. So 50 million sounds like very little money to me. like for, for CEO of a major company, however it is, I am sorry. Like it, like you, it's insane. but yeah, it feels like the last three, four years, once again of like the people managing HBO and all these other brands have done a bunch of bad decisions and now they're working them back and everybody says, yeah, that is the right call.

Yes, of course cable was dwindling separate that HBO is a premium brand separate that sell that separately, but that's why they could have done three, four years ago. No. Am I dumb?

[00:44:02] Troy: Yes. No, you're not dumb.

You're not telling me it

[00:44:07] Alex: Brian? 

[00:44:08] Troy: a peer, so I mean, okay, but hold up,

hold up. Hold up, baby. 

[00:44:12] Alex: Got 

it. What

[00:44:14] Brian: a's gonna bring some spreadsheet energy.

[00:44:16] Alex: Yeah. Yeah. That's brilliant. 

[00:44:17] AB: I was just gonna say from a, this is like an annoy, this is like me being an A nerd on tax, but there are, there is specificity like you and I don't know specific to your question on timing, but sometimes when you do, I. Mergers and other transactions, you have to wait a certain duration to then have a tax-free splitter spin.

So from a pure timing perspective, could they have done it earlier? Maybe not. 'cause there's like, there's, there's, IRS rules about how long you have to 

wait to do a second transaction after the first one. 

[00:44:52] Alex: I mean, he could have, he could 

have waited and not done all the HBO Max turning into Max, merging the things on, merging them all. That type of stuff feels like that's a waste of money and brand equity. I'm just, I'm just giving, I'm just scoring him. Troy's giving him an A plus with a little kiss and a heart next to it.

And I'm just saying that was a pretty D minus CEO.

[00:45:15] AB: I think that, I mean, the way that, the way that I would grade him is that. who? are you comparing him against? Right. I don't know if anyone else like the, the problem with this business and a lot of these other traditional media companies is the headwinds that they're facing. I think the biggest one is the decline in, cable.

Like households have subscribed to cable, right? So it's, you know. Seven years ago it was 105 million households and now it's down to 55. And even though this was predicted by research, no one

thought that would happen. And when you are getting 

paid,

[00:45:55] Brian: Wait,

[00:45:56] AB: when you're made money is.

[00:45:57] Brian: one

[00:45:57] Alex: Yeah. How, how does that happen? No one knows what would happen. It's just like, well, the river is get the, the, the, the waterfall's getting louder. The waterfall's getting louder and louder and louder, but we're still only going three miles an hour, so we're not gonna fall off the water. Like it's, it's insane.

It's the same thing happening with ai. When we, we talked to Neil Vogel, he is like, no, you know, search is here to, I mean, he didn't really, 

[00:46:19] AB: I think

no, I think I, here's where I would push back is like there's a lot, like there's a couple things that happened that were out of his control. 

This is probably why he had to pay McKinsey so much money. 

[00:46:30] Alex: that's another fireball offense. Hire McKinsey, you're immediately not allowed to be a CEO anymore. That is the 

[00:46:37] AB: they probably went to, they probably went to boarding school together, but basically what happened is. As your subscribers drop, your advertising revenue goes down, and then the most, you know, the most amazing fee for these cable networks are the affiliate fees That goes down too, because you're getting paid on a per sub basis at the same time you have COVID and the rider strike.

And so you're, you basically have the worst of, of two things. Revenue's coming down at a very rapid rate that you can't control, and at the same time, your costs are going up. And so the, the problem and the reason why this had to happen is, is readily predicated on the leverage, right? So as part of this split or spin, there.

They're basically adjusting the leverage of the two companies. so the traditional business has about four times leverage, and that's gonna be run for cash flow, and the growth business is levered at 2.6 times, and that's, that has a lot more room to invest and continue to grow. The other problem, so. I think the hope was, you know, people talk about cord shaving on cord cutting and they, you know, there was this belief, and I get the branding sucked, whatever.

But the problem is the way that consumers engage with streaming services is much different. The ability to cancel, especially with all these new rules about opting out of things, having to be basically frictionless, is your ability to turn on and off. Streaming services is so much easier than the traditional.

In the traditional cable model where you had to sign up for a year or two and you never canceled, whereas I think everybody on on on this podcast and everyone listening has canceled multiple streaming services multiple times when they just don't use them. And that was never the case before. And you're having to pay so much money to acquire the consumer, whereas before these companies never had to do that.

They purely only part of the value chain that they worried about was having quality content and

talking to Comcast every three years to get their 

[00:48:34] Brian: Well, this is something

[00:48:34] Troy: Okay, so hey.

[00:48:36] Brian: Andrew Rosen has brought this up, from parkour about, and I think it's like, it, it, it makes sense with what we're gonna talk about next, but like, being in the wholesale business is different than being in the retail business. And like trying to like go from being a wholesaler to a retailer is difficult.

And the people running them, maybe like the, they're, they're wholesalers. I mean, that was his point about, about the people running a lot of the cable networks, including David SLOs, they're wholesalers, they're not, they're not, they don't know the retail business.

[00:49:03] Troy: Yeah. Brian, do you mind if I try to make an

elegant transition to your segment that I'm, I'm really looking forward to? And, thank, thank, thank you ab your presence here is very welcome. And, a Alex seemed to be able to swallow your pill better than the one that I, that I provided,

but no, no, no. no. Okay. Just a minute now. The reason I got thinking about this, this notion of, of Netflix and, and the streamers. Brian was listening to a great podcast by Peter Kafka. His guest was Scott Frank, who's a, reputable creator of Entertainment Outta Sight, the Queen Gambit most recently on Netflix department Q. And they talked about how enviable a position, Netflix was in because of all the things they did, because they, they got out in front first 'cause they built their library because they took out the license to other people's content until they could rely on their own. They built a service that consumers, you know, went to, you know, in search of entertainment and they, you know, were good at customer acquisition on all those things.

And it just made me realize that the flywheel, which is. Real engagement, not relying on other people's platforms, you know, against a proposition that you can monetize by subs or advertising or whatever is really hard to do Now. It's really old fashioned and it's what it takes to build a sustainable media business. You know, otherwise you're sort of parasitically sitting on top of a platform and, you know, it's fine if you don't have a cost structure and all of that. But like, you know, in, in streaming the flywheel is, is is something that will be achieved by few. And a big part of that, to me, and, and, and thinking about that is, is the death of the link economy. And Alex wrote about it in the, in the chat, and I just thought it was a, a, a great point that he made, that, you know. A lot of companies, meta in particular, and, you know, I guess x after that have been hos hostile to the link and Google is the, is now the newest company that's becoming increasingly hostile to the link.

And without the link you don't have that, distribution economy that we know.

[00:51:25] Brian: Yeah, and the link has always been fundamental to the open web, right? I mean it's, it's basically how Google originally like gave credit and figured out like what they should put in front of people and links were the currency. I mean, not including a link to someone else if you had like referenced them.

It was like some kind of, you know, cultural sin. And yeah, I mean the tech platform started this. I mean, I think it really, Instagram really started the war on links. You know, they were, the fact that Link in bio even exists and it's actually like a big business is kind of

[00:51:59] Alex: I mean, my, my thesis is that like all of these companies like saw the link as a necessary evil, you know, and everyone that could, you know, Instagram with a link in Bio Apple not letting you link out to third party payment system, Google showing you the weather when you are, you know, like anything that it could, so you don't click on the link if you actually asked anyone in these companies, nobody loved the links.

The only person, you know, like the only, it started with Yahoo. Yahoo was just a series of links and really loved the link. But after that, every single company that came out of there, like saw it as a necessary evil and that they would kind of work away from as quickly as possible.

[00:52:36] Brian: Well, Google was keeping the link alive. I mean, search is a collection of links at the end of the day.

Um, and now, and now 

[00:52:46] Alex: ad was one of the links. Yeah. Yes. Because because the Yeah, I, I think, I think 

[00:52:51] Troy: So what is your broader, your broader take on this spread?

[00:52:54] Brian: can we just pause one second just 'cause you, you changed in, you're, you're recording in a different device apparently.

[00:53:02] Alex: yeah, you changed, your mic just dropped off and it sounds like ass.

[00:53:06] Brian: I think it's that your vanity with using the, the, the AirPods instead of like the dorky headphones comes back to haunt you.

[00:53:16] Troy: Okay. Pause for one sec. somehow it killed my mic. Alex, what? And it won't give me.

[00:53:23] Alex: You need to change settings.

[00:53:27] AB: Just maybe unplug and plug your mic back in. I, I have to hop in like five minutes. So if you wanted 

to talk about the AI tolling.

[00:53:35] Brian: Okay, so one of the things, let's, let's talk about the AI to tolling real quick. 'cause this is part of, you know, the link economy. Because all my conversations that I'm having with publishers come down to how are they going to get paid for their content that is being used in these AI engines. And there has to be a tax, there's this idea of, of cloud flare that's basically gonna turn off, which is a CDN.

They're gonna like turn off by default, basically tax all the bots. Humans don't get taxed, but the bots get taxed. Toll BID is trying to do this. There's lots of different people who are trying to, to get in on, on this basic concept of tax. The bots. 

[00:54:19] AB: Yep. So think about two things. One is we did some work, A few different countries tried to force Google and others to pay this link tax, which was effectively, I. The publishers getting value from and I think Facebook for linking and showing their content, but not pushing people off the website.

The reason why Google was like no, is like the, the point they were making is like, we don't make any money off these like news and content searches. Most of where Google's money is made on is on like. A very small percentage of the search volume. That's like high intent. And so what's interesting when you go down this path of like licensing content, it actually opens up a couple interesting things that most people don't talk about, but that's really relevant.

So the first one is, one is the content's not that valuable. So even if you get these AI engines to pay, the difference between getting that traffic to your website and monetizing it through direct or programmatic advertising and then selling and all this other stuff. Is way different. It's not like 50% different.

It's like 10 to one. 

[00:55:30] Brian: Yeah. 

[00:55:31] AB: The second thing is, as soon as you start negotiating as a group, you have to go and get. Antitrust. You basically have to get an exclusion from Congress, from the government, one of the houses, to basically allow you to, to negotiate as a group because you cannot collectively negotiate some sort of fee arrangement from one party versus a collective group.

As soon as you do that, there's a lot more constituents that own ip, that publishers misperceived that have a lot more money. So we try to do this and the. National Association of Broadcasters said no. And the reason why they were worried about it is they were worried that the way that their affiliate and Retrends is structured would then get broken up because of this basically pause.

And so that's like another tough hurdle if you don't negotiate as a group. These AI engines will effectively just go, and this is what happened when Google partnered with the publishers. They just go and pick off the top five people and basically say, fuck you to the rest. Because you don't need that con, like, it's like if you're, if you want your our users to see the Witchita newspaper.

You basically have it to give it to us for free. So those two things alone, I, I get this tolling idea, but to me the deeper that you dive into the value sharing, it's a really tough thing. It's an interesting concept, but it's really tough to apply. I get it. They're trying to bridge some way to basically get value from these moss, but I don't think it's gonna actually lead to a revenue offset 

that's going to help publishers. 

[00:57:12] Alex: I, am I silly, silly in 

thinking that the music industry does this quite successfully,

[00:57:17] AB: Except, yeah, they do it exceptionally well. Yep. 

[00:57:20] Alex: and why is that unavailable? 

[00:57:22] Troy: it's an 

oligopoly and

because the songs play in on repeat, it's a different business. You

[00:57:32] AB: And the value. So the simplest thing when we were working on this link, link idea is we went to those companies and they were all open to basically moderating the rights for publishers. The problem is the value of music is a lot different than 

printed content. So they can 

[00:57:51] Troy: and media expires. Print is catalog, or sorry, music is catalog. Three parties can negotiate the entire industry. The value of a play is, easier to, to calibrate against and, and, and create a revenue stream. It's

[00:58:06] Alex: The, the, the thing I don't, the thing I don't get because the protection even for the larger companies, because last time we had Neil Fogel, he was talking about how, you know, people love the raspberry pie recipe from a specific outlet, for example. So they will always go there and you would think that it, maybe if they strike a deal for, for one of their cooking sites, then they're safe.

But what's happening with AI is like, I can tell it, it doesn't even need to scrape something from another side because all of that, because of the way the internet is, all of that information, whether it's a New York Times. Article or whatever is all clipped and reshared everywhere else, right. Like that, that information is all available.

I can tell it, write me an article like X or, you know, and, and it, it 

[00:58:52] AB: I mean, this is not to push back on Neil, but the funny thing with recipes is it's not ip. Like you can't, you can't patent a, like it's not, it's not protected. like it's 

the one piece of content that's not protected 

[00:59:03] Alex: I could say like, make me a, 

make me the spaghetti, but in a Matheson style and it'll figure it out. It'll do it. Somebody's done it, you know, or there's enough out there, so.

[00:59:13] Brian: Yeah. A lot of the people I talk to are, are looking at, you know, the citations and, and how if you can figure out who, who has been, who has been used in order like that, that needs to be taxed, and also the people who are building apps on top of these LLMs, that those are the ones who are gonna have to pay these taxes.

[00:59:33] Alex: Mm-hmm.

[00:59:35] Brian: At least that's the, that's the hope the problem is there's not enough, there's not enough value in, in this whole tax regime. It's like the Trump terror. It doesn't make, it just doesn't make, there's not enough, like I. Juice in the system to make it work. the, basically the way to bifurcate the content is you have like normal consumer news, whatever, entertainment, and then the service journalism, the, the news and stuff.

[01:00:01] AB: I think the brands that like maybe they can charge a little bit more to the AI engines, as a toll. but the longer tail, they're just gonna be. Playing for scraps service journalism, there's a reason to get a link to the next step in the transaction where it's like if you're writing credit cards or something, then you want to basically stipulate to.

Whatever LOM is pulling that data that you have to include our link so that they can get the next couple steps of the consumer journey and monetize it. But I think?

it's a, it's a really tough thing. I just think it's important to understand like the basic levers here, because I don't think the tolling will actually work. 

[01:00:42] Brian: Hmm. Troy, what do you think? 

[01:00:45] Troy: uh, I think that two, a huge swath of it is. Service related is already eaten. I think a lot of it is repeated and commoditized. I think news has a dimension like it actually has on the internet to this point where people that don't really care about who provides the information can aggregate it and, you know, it's a low value customer and a low value news transaction, but people that really care about news will seek out premium reporting from people that charge them for it. So I, I, I think that, you know, reporting analysis point of view and the news will still be protected from, you know, AI aggregation. But the way that that sort of gets, you know, delivered to a lot of people that don't care as much will be totally commoditized and will be largely free to, to.abs point, and, I think that companies like Toll Bit and what was the name of the other one, Brian, that you cite Prorata

and and potentially infrastructure providers, like who's trying to do it at the, at sort of the

[01:01:56] Brian: CloudFlare.

[01:01:57] Troy: Cloudflare's trying to do it.

I, I, I think that it will both be extremely difficult and amount to small amounts of money. Certainly not enough to produce meaningful content.

[01:02:08] AB: The place where Tobe can make money is more on proprietary data that isn't like news or entertainment, but it's like medical stuff or other things like, like a journal, like education journals or some things like that where there's only one piece of that content. And if it wants to be like, that's where the tobe business should go.

Not trying to fix the 

New York Times business. So I gotta hop guys. 

[01:02:34] Troy: Thank you

AB. 

[01:02:34] Brian: right. Good Okay, bye. I think that's a great point. 'cause I think there's gonna be a lot of, there's gonna be a class of publishers who aren't publishing to, like, actually public websites, you know, that they'll just, they'll, they'll wholesale to, to different engines and different, you know, specialized apps that are being, we haven't even seen all of the app, the apps that are going to be built off of these LLMs.

Right. Like, we haven't, like, and so I, I don't think it's really clear about like how much value is necessarily going to be created and who will end up paying. but I know that. The idea of getting people to come to a webpage to show them ads from programmatic is a losing strategy.I don't think I, I mean, now, you know, Neil had said it to me.

I, the Wall Street Journal had had an article about the search declines. They called it ai, Armageddon is here. and it's kind of common to be preparing for common for, for, excuse me, for Google Zero now, and to just so assume that you're not going to get that traffic from Google. which is gonna be really painful for a lot of people.

Yeah.

[01:03:39] Alex: Oh, it's, it's, it's existential, isn't it?

[01:03:44] Troy: 

[01:03:44] Brian: should 

[01:03:45] Troy: For, you know, a a a AB is, is real busy. I was glad he could come by. He's working on a deal right now and I'm hopeful that he gets it over the line,

[01:03:55] Brian: I hope so too. He's gonna be in Cannes. Anyone who's gonna be in Cannes, look around. 'cause Abs gonna be there.

[01:04:01] Alex: Yeah,

[01:04:02] Brian: I not? I shouldn't be blowing up his spot. He won't have to take it out. 

There's gonna be 

[01:04:07] Alex: or her spot 

[01:04:08] Brian: people in Cannes. So it's not Terry Kja. We'll say that. AB

[01:04:13] Alex: and a lot of them, and a lot of them will be bankers, so

[01:04:17] Troy: Not that many actually.

[01:04:19] Alex: no.

[01:04:19] Troy: No. yeah,

[01:04:20] Brian: by the way, we are, we are having a live PPVA. Are you coming to it Troy?

[01:04:25] Troy: I'll tell you in two days.

[01:04:27] Brian: Oh my God. There's invitations and stuff

[01:04:31] Troy: Well, you can hold it down by the way. You know, Neil's got a lot to say. There's gonna be no shortage of, between Neil, Sarah Fisher and yourself. There's not a lot of bandwidth left, to be honest.

[01:04:42] Brian: and I teased a possible surprise guest. I don't know who that's gonna be.

[01:04:46] Troy: Right. Yeah. You know, I, I went to a movie yesterday, the, the

Phoenician Scheme. Yeah.

You know, one of the great things about a movie, actually a tremendously good product is, popcorn in a real Coke, not a diet Coke, like a full on large with ice in it. you know, counteracting the saltiness of the, of the popcorn.

that kind of, that

that, that, that is to

[01:05:13] Alex: counter. They counteract that, but they all combine together to go at your arteries 

[01:05:19] Troy: Is it bad for you? I guess it probably is.

I felt like I had a sugar hangover this morning. Maybe that's what made me a little cranky earlier.

[01:05:26] Alex: yeah. I mean, that's why he wanted to protect ZZ love.

Yeah.was like, it was like, it was like that scene in a movie where the nerd gets bullet and the cool kid comes up and just like stands up for him. I think there was like, that was like, you know, heroic music playing in the background as you did that, Troy, and I think it's God's work you're doing.

It really is. 

[01:05:48] Troy: You know, Brian, this one is, this struck me yesterday and you're a little like this, I would say is a great compliment to you, but

no one's been doing podcasting longer than Peter Kafka. And, you know, he used to be like you, a little bit more cynical, a little bit more confrontational. Now I think he. He's not only an expert but a great conversationalist. And, I listened to his pod yesterday with Scott Frank, as I mentioned, and, enjoyed it immensely. I think that Peter's podcast, which is called

[01:06:28] Brian: Channels.

[01:06:29] Troy: Channels, is a, is a good product and Peter is a terrific podcaster.

[01:06:33] Alex: I don't like the name.

[01:06:35] Brian: Channels.

[01:06:36] Alex: forget what it's called.

[01:06:37] Troy: Yeah,

[01:06:38] Alex: It's odd. Yeah. 

[01:06:39] Troy: no, But you, you would, yeah, I like his stuff. And you would maybe contrast him with someone like Taylor Lorenz that just like is irritating.

[01:06:49] Brian: it's, they're different lanes. They're different lanes. 

[01:06:51] Troy: No, I mean, I think she had, Taylor Taylor has a place in the ecosystem for sure. Yeah, but that doesn't mean I can, you know, I enjoy listening to it.

[01:07:00] Brian: Yeah. By the way, did you see that friend of PVA Emily Sunburg was, was brought out to I as part of like Apple's ww DC, like they brought out, a couple of like sub stackers and this guy or John, I, like, I met him, I had dinner with him once. He's like the Internet's creative director. He's like, he's an influencer.

He's a 

[01:07:23] Troy: Well, Emily has done an amazing job of building a brand around, you know, like a really good product. A product that's, feels like it's it's own thing. It's sexy, it's insidery, 

[01:07:39] Brian: But then she started fighting with Puck.

[01:07:41] Troy: well, p

[01:07:42] Brian: It's this like a real little, little, it's a real like media spat. Yeah, 

[01:07:47] Troy: Well, like, like your, you know, your bundling thing. When you asked se for Ben about why he's not hiring more, you know, established sub sackers, what, What John Kelly would like to do over at Puck is, you know, pick off the best of 'em. People like yourself in your beat, and someone like Emily and, and bundle inside a puck.

Emily doesn't need to do it though. She, she's got a good thing going.

[01:08:12] Brian: yeah. The bundle someday. All right, let's leave it there. I'm a little outta gas. I, I just flew in today.

[01:08:22] Alex: Hmm.

[01:08:23] Brian: that well on flights.

[01:08:25] Alex: No. Do you fly business?

[01:08:27] Brian: I flew business here though. It was great. I can't, I, I don't know if I can go in the back of 

[01:08:32] Troy: Yeah. You know, there's people that, that, you know, Brian, there's people that know how to do that, right. And people that don't like it. An example would be eat in the lounge, get on the plane, don't eat, don't drink, go to sleep, take a

[01:08:47] Brian: Oh yeah. That's all I did. That's all I 

[01:08:48] Troy: Right? Whereas my wife in business where she. It has to eat everything that they bring her,

[01:08:54] Brian: Oh my God, I don't eat anything. And then they act shocked. They're like, you're not eating. I'm like, no. What? Like I eat at home. What?

[01:09:01] Alex: I think I, I, I, I, I do that. Isn't that like a growing up poor thing? Like some, so, I mean, you know, I paid for this ticket. I, I will eat 

[01:09:13] Troy: Right. But listen, you eat in the lounge, and

especially if you go to like the Emirates Lounge, they have curry. 

[01:09:19] Alex: not saying it's right, Troy. I'm just not saying

[01:09:22] Brian: It was my first time in the Delta One Lounge in, JFK, the new Delta one lounge. They have their own security, like, thing that you go through. It's, it's interesting to see how the, everyone's trying to get, get after like, like the most ex the, the expensive travelers. so they have to up their lounge games, ran into Lou Pascal in the lounge.

[01:09:44] Alex: So is that your good product?

[01:09:46] Brian: the Delta one lounge, I don't like airport lounges. I don't understand why people obviously just show up when the flight's gonna leave. Why would you want to

[01:09:53] Alex: My wife always wants to sit in a lounge when we have lounge access. And I actually love, I love airports and I like being like anywhere but the lounge. All the action is somewhere else.

[01:10:03] Troy: you know what is a good, surprisingly, an airport that I actually like is Denver. I know that's not maybe a popular opinion,

[01:10:10] Brian: You know that there's like big conspiracy theories about that,

[01:10:13] Troy: I like that Denver has the trains that take you to A, B, or C. And they also have, what's very important is a Shake Shack. I

[01:10:22] Brian: but they also, those trains play the little like stampede, on, on repeat

[01:10:27] Troy: I like the Denver Airport

and the new Newark Terminal Sea. Is that what it is? The new United Terminal at Newark is pretty good.

[01:10:37] Brian: Yeah. But Newark is a mess.

[01:10:39] Troy: LaGuardia also very good now.

[01:10:42] Brian: Great

[01:10:43] Alex: love all airports equally. They're all great.

[01:10:46] Troy: You know what the best airport experience I ever had was Alex.

Is that No. Well, I, I, I Not that it's that, it's the Turkish airlines food B Bizarre in the airport in Istanbul. They have an open

grill, they have meats, they have

all of it. It's

[01:11:04] Brian: They have a hell of an airport in Istanbul. I've, I've been in that. I wrote a newsletter in the, in the Istanbul airport on my phone.

[01:11:11] Alex: Well, I think, I guess that covers our good product for the week.

[01:11:15] Brian: Airports.

[01:11:17] Alex: told you guys this was going to be a great episode.

[01:11:20] Brian: All right. 

It's a work in progress. let's leave it there.

[01:11:23] Troy: Thank you

guys. Great to see you.

[01:11:25] Brian: Good to see you all.

[01:11:27] Troy: Hey, a Alex, Alex.

