Brian Morrissey (00:03.682)
Hi Troy, welcome.

T-roy (00:06.78)
Did you guys do some nice warm-up exercises?

Alex (00:09.472)
We just recorded a whole episode.

Alex (00:14.273)
good.

Brian Morrissey (00:14.274)
Talked about your boys weekend with AB.

T-roy (00:14.353)
Good.

T-roy (00:19.162)
You talk about how you feed my responses in a B or into your AI.

Brian Morrissey (00:22.998)
I can't hear you. What is it with the fucking volume on this thing?

T-roy (00:25.82)
you

AB (00:26.542)
I can hear everybody.

Alex (00:28.0)
Mike, you look great, Troy, but you gotta keep that mic closer to you.

T-roy (00:33.276)
Can you hear me Brian?

Alex (00:35.093)
Nice.

Brian Morrissey (00:37.314)
Yeah, you should do it like Liam, what's his name, Liam Gallagher with, you know, he gets right up into the microphone. He puts his arms behind his back and he just leans into it.

Alex (00:48.266)
Imagine the roadie that has to pick up that microphone and clean it up. What do think Leon Gallagher's breath smells like?

Brian Morrissey (00:53.624)
But those shows, have you seen the clips from Oasis shows? They're like amazing. They don't even have to sing.

T-roy (00:54.908)
potatoes.

Alex (00:58.017)
Yeah.

AB (00:59.087)
I'm gonna go to Oasis, you guys should come. I'm gonna go to Oasis in Japan for my birthday. Come, I'll send you the email.

Brian Morrissey (01:02.734)
my God, I'm in.

Alex (01:03.692)
wow.

Brian Morrissey (01:06.284)
Really? I'll go.

AB (01:07.854)
Yeah, it's really funny. I wrote this email and all my friends thought Chad CPT wrote it. It's like, no, I have some creativity.

Alex (01:09.152)
Yeah.

T-roy (01:13.648)
Good Brian, you can see what it's like to spend concentrated time with AB.

AB (01:17.859)
You

Brian Morrissey (01:20.298)
I would love it. I would love it.

T-roy (01:21.936)
He sends me an email every or text every day telling asking me to use, take my boat without me. And then when he's on the boat, he just tells me how useless I am.

Alex (01:22.166)
This is it.

Brian Morrissey (01:30.552)
You're bad.

Alex (01:34.997)
in.

Brian Morrissey (01:36.27)
That's good. Should we get started?

T-roy (01:39.26)
But where do you want to start today, Brian?

Brian Morrissey (01:42.83)
Well, first I want to start with welcoming everyone to People vs. Algorithms, the show about media, technology, culture, AI, connecting the dots. I'm Brian Morrissey, joined everything podcast, joined by Alex Schleifer and Troy Young and AB aka Anonymous Banker.

T-roy (01:52.924)
It's about everything.

Alex (01:55.276)
It's about life, man.

Alex (01:59.574)
Hello.

T-roy (02:06.47)
Are we bringing AB on for the whole episode?

AB (02:07.023)
Thank

Brian Morrissey (02:08.75)
Anyways, here. They're here. No, give me a break.

AB (02:10.423)
I can stay on for just part.

Alex (02:13.322)
No, come on, Jesus. This is the new All In. We already talked about going to Oasis in Japan, so see Oasis in Japan. Are we taking the PJ? Troy's wearing his.

Brian Morrissey (02:20.174)
Yeah, I'll definitely go. Those shows look amazingly fun. I haven't, you know, I just think it's a good, it's a good throwback and it's a good, it's yet another example of why live events are gonna be massive and continue to be massive. Oasis are going to...

T-roy (02:38.798)
Is it uncool? Yeah. It seems really uncool to me.

Alex (02:41.84)
It's very cool. It's very cool. I never liked Oasis, so it's hard for me to say.

Brian Morrissey (02:45.868)
What, Oasis is uncool?

T-roy (02:49.018)
I mean, they got a couple hits and they're obnoxious and they're for people that don't really have, you know, like musical taste.

Brian Morrissey (02:49.419)
I like to waste this.

Brian Morrissey (02:59.091)
here comes the snobbishness. it's fine. An Oasis concert is just fun. Some things can just be fun,

Alex (03:00.562)
Okay.

Couple of hits that obnoxious could be the name of could be the name of your

T-roy (03:05.818)
That's true. Yeah, they're like ABBA, ABBA for dudes.

AB (03:09.197)
I mean, this song that everybody remembers is the one that they play at high school graduation, right? That's the...

Alex (03:15.968)
Yeah, I mean it's not as uncool as Coldplay.

T-roy (03:17.604)
like it was yesterday.

Brian Morrissey (03:19.064)
But the thing is, they don't even have to sing. He just starts singing and everyone sings the entire song. It's great. It's a great model.

Alex (03:27.306)
That's what happens when you only have four chords.

Brian Morrissey (03:30.126)
Whatever, all the music snobs can hate on it. They're gonna make like a billion dollars off this.

Alex (03:31.756)
AB (03:33.038)
Thanks.

Alex (03:35.114)
Yeah, I think I'm still burnt because I was a Blur fan at the time and it was a Blur versus Oasis. was the Michael Jackson versus Prince of its time and Oasis definitely won.

Brian Morrissey (03:45.452)
Yeah, all the snobs were like, no, Blur is the best one. And Oasis ran the table with them. It doesn't matter. The marketplace is the marketplace. We got some audience feedback about the dynamics. I got an email from a listener who asked.

Alex (03:49.396)
I mean, it's better music, but yeah.

That's right. That's right.

T-roy (04:04.9)
Well, you come for the, you know, the topical information about media and marketing and gaming and all that, and you stay for the parasocial dysfunction. Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (04:17.258)
Exactly. The question was, is Troy actually a nice guy? Actually, he doing a lot of work there.

T-roy (04:22.716)
Of course he is. Dear listener, of course I'm nice.

Brian Morrissey (04:25.614)
And then there was a question about whether Alex is on the spectrum or not. Yes.

T-roy (04:31.536)
Dear listener, yes.

Alex (04:33.866)
I mean, think Troy's a nice guy until you ask him a thing like, Hey, can we, do some planning for next podcast or here? You going to be in New York on those dates? Then he turns into a monster.

Brian Morrissey (04:46.358)
Well, now Troy won't come into New York during the summer. That's a snobbish thing. Like, not like an oasis. It's like being in Manhattan isn't cool during the summer, I guess.

T-roy (04:48.028)
Thank

Alex (04:58.124)
But I'm coming to New York.

T-roy (05:00.314)
That's why we'll see you. I'm going to actually come in and see you, Alex, but.

Alex (05:04.254)
Okay. Okay. Well, I'm, I'm flying tomorrow. some, some plan would be, would it would be great to have some, some idea. Yeah. I think, I think just, just on a neurodivergent thing, like, you know, I don't want to, some people have real challenges with that. I don't want to, you know, kind of make a joke out of it, but I am, I have, you know, there are two types of ADHD and I have both and they're both like cranked up to 11. So yes. So yes, I'm your neurodivergent.

Brian Morrissey (05:05.271)
Sweet, you're coming in.

T-roy (05:13.052)
planning.

Brian Morrissey (05:14.69)
Okay, I want to get into this.

Alex (05:34.134)
But I'm not on a spectrum, I think. I don't know, you tell me.

Brian Morrissey (05:39.566)
Okay, so let's get into, I have a couple of quick hits and then we'll get into all the AI stuff. Does he? Okay. You know, one is I, Vox Media CEO Jim Bankhoff was recently on with our friend Dylan Byers on his Grow Room podcast, which I think, Troy's been on it, AB's been on it, just Alex and I have not been.

Alex (05:45.834)
Maybe he's got a hot mic situation going on. Yeah.

Alex (06:07.626)
I mean, I'm not even mentioned, I'm the other guy.

Brian Morrissey (06:09.966)
Dylan's podcast. That's fine. That's no big deal. Anyway, he did really interesting.

Alex (06:14.432)
a little offended. I've been called Neurodivergent and the other guy in the last weeks. At some point it starts getting to you.

Brian Morrissey (06:20.056)
It's okay. No, it's good. It's good. Well, look, you were the breakout star until AB took that away from you. So blame him. Blame them. Anyway, one of the things that I thought it was an interesting discussion with Jim when they finally got into it, you know, he's good at these things. always found him to be a very, you realistic and...

Alex (06:31.574)
That's true. Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (06:48.91)
there's conversationalists around this. But a lot of what they were talking about was basically Vox being almost like a half talent management firm. And I think this is, if anyone can actually pull this off as a legacy publisher, it seems like this is a very good lane to be in and to be able to do all the things that individuals are not going to for the most part want to do with building up infrastructure and building up distribution.

but be able to make the economics work. AB, I want to start with you on this one. Do you have any thoughts on how publishers can nurture these kind of personalities and be able to strike business deals with them that are not like employment deals?

AB (07:25.375)
Yep.

part.

AB (07:37.898)
Yep. Yeah. So I think there's a really good analogy I heard last week, which is sort of like a sports team. Everyone has the same name on the front, right? Which is the team you're playing for. And then there's a select number of players where the name on the back matters more. And so I think for both sides, both the talent and the publishers, it makes sense to harmonize the relationship and let them earn value in other ways, but keep them as part of the platform. as Kara.

shopped her podcast deal around with Scott, like they ended up going back to Vox because they realized, wow, this ad sales team can actually add a lot of value. They know our product. And I think there's a lot of things Kara can probably get if she wanted to turn back on her conference. Vox has the team to do it. And so I think more and more, instead of the news releases being, hey, I left this platform to go to Substack, it's gonna be like, no, this writer is allowed to write or is going to start writing.

on Substack or is gonna be doing other things. The podcasting has been around for a long time, but I think more more people that have a real audience, they're gonna lean into creating other types of content and figure out ways of making additional money. Being a journalist where you're only writing editorial content that lives on a website and maybe in a newsletter for your main company is not that valuable and they can't pay you that much. So the only way to make more money is by going into other mediums.

Brian Morrissey (09:03.372)
Yeah, Troy, what's the bare case to this to publishers actually being able to do this?

T-roy (09:10.044)
I love when you have a media question now you go to the banker. Son of the time span. Yeah, you're doing a good job. The Yeah, Jim Bank off like the last honest guy in media. I mean, he just gives it the only he just gives you know, a perfectly

Brian Morrissey (09:19.598)
I'm just trying to mix things up. I thought A.B.' response was great.

Brian Morrissey (09:32.362)
last or only.

T-roy (09:39.842)
you know, buy the books, interview, praises all of his partners and his staff and just comes off as being a great guy and he is a good guy.

Brian Morrissey (09:48.974)
Yeah, he took a shot at Barry Weiss and this idea that they would get a 20x valuation, but then he quickly said, no, no, no, I'm not.

T-roy (09:55.2)
Yeah, I mean, he he'll make little subtle points about him having to live by the rules of economics and stuff like that, I think, which, you know, is in contrast to something like maybe the I think it was in the context of a question about the Atlantic, which I believe is now profitable, but certainly had the loving hand of a philanthropist to get there. The I think Jim's super smart. He's great. And listen, what does it mean to be able to blend

Brian Morrissey (10:03.565)
Yeah.

T-roy (10:24.988)
You know, uh, kind of media brand driven and talent driven company. think it means that you, you have the complexity of managing union expectations around fairness, uh, compensation with what you need to pay, you know, breakout talent. You have to, you know, figure out, I think the hardest part about it is that if you're not careful, the economics get away from you and.

After you pay for your operational overhead and your ad sales team and all that stuff, if you pay too big a chunk to the creator, you can have a kind of mildly or totally unprofitable business. So Jim's had to navigate that. He's probably done a great job. You saw the deal with Kara and Scott where they took 70 % and he gets 30 for managing some operational bid and doing the ad sales. So those are kind of lower margin businesses.

AB (11:12.465)
Thank

T-roy (11:23.664)
And you got to have other things in your portfolio that are higher margin to balance them out. But I think that creating an ecosystem that can support both, you know, hired help and talent is the magic kind of Venn diagram and good on him if he's able to create it.

Brian Morrissey (11:46.134)
Yeah, I mean it's better to be talented than hired help.

AB (11:48.292)
Yeah, one nuance here too. There's some of the places. So as we talk about this question, we think about Peter Kafka and Kara, but it's actually allowed some of the younger writers and content creators at these places like Business Insider and Morning Brew, where they've actually built content channels on other platforms like TikTok and Instagram. And so to me, it's like a better way of like...

Widening the top of funnel to get future subscribers because you have these journalists making shorter form content that can live in Places where the younger audience is actually engaging and they recognize this person is a content creator that I really like and they also write for morning brew Maybe I should subscribe to the newsletter, right? So you don't have to just think about in the normal care model There's newer ones where some of these creative people that are younger are actually getting their voice heard a lot sooner They're not just having to sit there and be a staff writer

T-roy (12:41.968)
Yeah, good point. Meanwhile, another media news dot dash Meredith, the elegantly named Alex's favorite company. I did get a note from Neil about Alex's joke and he was he said something very mean about Alex that I didn't share.

Brian Morrissey (12:43.213)
Yeah, exactly.

Alex (12:58.027)
that's great. That's the you know, that's a nice thing to do to say somebody said something mean and then not share it.

T-roy (13:03.17)
thought it was fun well yeah i'm trying to protect you alex he thought it was funny you made the crack about he can get on another bike to nowhere or something

Alex (13:05.598)
that's, you know what? That is so thoughtful.

Brian Morrissey (13:10.83)
I thought it was funny.

Alex (13:11.072)
Well, that's what we were talking about.

T-roy (13:12.846)
Yeah, it was funny. you know, meanwhile, Conde Nast told the writers yesterday.

Brian Morrissey (13:16.664)
Well, so they rebranded Dot-Merideth. Let's just get the news out there. They rebranded to People Inc. OK, so Dot- bought Meredith, which is the former Time Inc. properties mostly that had bought Meredith. And then they rebranded it from Dot- to Dot-Merideth. And this is a corporate holding company for a bunch of different brands, including People. And now they're going to People Inc.

which is sort of a nod to the timing, because Meredith was really timing. Go on.

T-roy (13:49.116)
But it's a nod to being anti-AI and the fact that actual people make the content. And apparently Barry Diller's idea. Nice idea actually, I like it. Good one guys. It's a simpler. Dot-Meredith is kind of icky. Sounds like you're going to the dentist. Yeah. So people's nice, got a nice ring to it.

Brian Morrissey (13:59.864)
Why is it good idea?

Brian Morrissey (14:05.386)
It's a corporate name.

Brian Morrissey (14:11.19)
Okay, so congrats, Neil.

T-roy (14:12.686)
Meanwhile, today, Condé said told the writers to get off substack.

Brian Morrissey (14:18.498)
They did?

T-roy (14:18.588)
Did you see that news? Yeah. They don't want them, you know, freelancing on.

Brian Morrissey (14:25.314)
Huh, that seems to be counter to the direction that AB is advocating. Alex, we haven't heard from you. You gotta chime in. We got four people now.

T-roy (14:26.896)
Breaking news.

T-roy (14:36.988)
He doesn't care about this though.

AB (14:38.662)
I think we should go back. We can talk about sub-stack and intimacy again.

Alex (14:39.178)
I don't care. Don't want to, yeah, I don't want to offend Neil.

T-roy (14:45.436)
No. He's on this intimacy thing about Substack. Please don't indulge him. No, honestly, seriously, he can have a role in this podcast, but he can't start to like have an agenda.

Brian Morrissey (14:47.022)
Wait, what did he say, A.B.?

AB (14:49.223)
gonna get that.

AB (14:58.503)
I have my Scott Galloway unifying concept of why people aren't having sex. Conde Nast is not allowing people to write sub stacks.

Oh, wow. Yeah, I mean, to me, it's like people is not allowing someone to have a Twitter. I think that that policy will change really quickly. The other nuance with that policy, Troy, might be they might saying that for the staff writers, but a lot of the way that the magazines are put together is freelance. Right. So it's a weird thing for them to not allow their in-house talent. But some of the people that write a lot of the content for their magazines have their own subsects already or. Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (15:36.342)
It's backwards. I mean, it's completely backwards.

Alex (15:38.348)
mean, it just means that in essence, becoming a freelancer becomes a more attractive deal. You have more perks, right? Because you can do it.

Brian Morrissey (15:49.592)
Well, if you're a freelancer, you can become talent, right? Like you don't want to be Troy's hired help.

T-roy (15:52.86)
I think the key thing is, that you manage control of the business deals around the media. So I had an example that I had to navigate a few years ago where a very senior editor at Hearst was striking deals on the side with beauty companies to do influencer kind of stuff and advocacy stuff.

Alex (15:54.048)
Yeah. Yeah, exactly.

T-roy (16:21.852)
And, you know, it was a, I thought it undermined our business proposition for an editor of a publication to be able to go out and sell her services to one of our clients, where, you know, it was obviously in our interest to have that client come through us. So I think if Jim's gonna do.

Brian Morrissey (16:43.286)
And by the way, to capture most of the value on the arrangement.

T-roy (16:46.844)
Yeah, had pennies on the dollar.

So, you know, if Jim's gonna, you know, you're gonna pay for the talent, you're gonna want the rights to sell the media.

Brian Morrissey (16:57.43)
Yeah. mean, to me, it's just the people are going to want to move to the talent side of the ledger than the hired help side. And that involves more risk and that. that also involves, you know, if you're Kara Swisher and Scott Galloway, you're doing business partnerships. You're not like negotiating your PTO. And, you know, there's upsides and downsides to both approaches. I want to move on.

New York Times, Amazon deal, we're starting to get numbers from some of these AI deals. And I think it is inevitable that these will be struck. And I think the big question ends up being, what are the financial terms that are going, that they're gonna have? Apparently the New York Times deal to license, or the Amazon deal to license New York Times content for AI training and summarize their articles in Alexa.

is about 20 to 25 million a year. And this matches up with some of the other sort of high profile deals. I think the biggest publishers are going to be able to strike these deals. I don't know about, obviously about all the publishers. What is your, I don't know, what do you think about this deal, or the numbers? Because I think that's the big question is like how much.

T-roy (18:16.028)
What I think, guess just thinking about it now, Brian, I, you don't mind if I call you Brian, you? That was one of the comments in the, I don't know if you read it, Alex, but that was one of the comments in the feedback from the audience, from that, I don't know who it was that sent that to you, Brian, that I address people like I'm picking you to, like a daddy.

Brian Morrissey (18:23.16)
No, please, Bri. Bri Guy. I hate that.

Brian Morrissey (18:43.563)
yeah, yeah, well that's your role to play, daddy's home.

T-roy (18:45.666)
Yeah. Okay. On this, you know what it says to me and it's this, it's a game where there's going to be really big winners or significant winners, just like in kind of the new platform era, the next generation of the platform era, which maybe we can discuss in a minute. But, you know, it doesn't hurt the New York Times to syndicate out their content and put 20 million in their pocket because, know, I

I'm a subscriber and I buy it for the bundle and I play the games and read the headlines and look at the food section. And if I see, you know, a snippet on Amazon or it's a, you know, wire cutter content is recommending a product there or something. It's, it doesn't change the fundamentals of the relationship that I have with, with the New York Times. All it gives them is more.

you know, gunpowder to build their business because they just added $20 million. So it's going to be great for the flywheel, you know, original reporting, kind of big media, you know, publishing media brands like the New York Times and maybe a handful of others that strike these deals and it just really fortifies their business. Few others will get something anywhere near this scale. And, you know, I really do think it just really advantages

the scaled winners in the game.

AB (20:15.557)
And just to kind of tag on win for New York Times. News Corp will sign a deal like a few people will get these types of deals. The real fly will here. So yes, it's an AI deal, but think about where else this content may show up. On Alexa, right, like on all these different other ways that consumers currently engage with Amazon and in the New York Times doesn't have a device in everybody's home. And whenever it shows up in an Amazon environment.

I'm sure as part of this deal, it's brought to you by the New York Times, right? So if you get a good recipe, it should, in a consumer's mind, say, oh my goodness, this was actually a really good recipe. I want to go subscribe to the New York Times. So I look at the $20 million is actually a nice to have, but the main goal of the New York Times and what you see in all of their earnings releases and the way that they talk to the market is we have this subscriber goal that is in the future and everything they do is to

Brian Morrissey (20:50.359)
yeah.

AB (21:14.821)
grow the subscribers to continue to do that and that allows them to continue to make better content. And so I think the reason why they did this deal is not for the 20 million, but more so to widen the aperture of who knows about the New York Times and the quality content they produce. Because that's cooking and the athletic are two other places where maybe you don't agree with how they cover politics, but there's not Republican and Democrat cooking and sports. There's a little bit of that, but I think the athletic has done a pretty good.

job of reporting on sports from the bottom up and not getting involved in the politics of sports. So I actually see the value here of adding, having the opportunity to add a lot more subscribers back to the New York Times.

Brian Morrissey (21:59.084)
Yeah. And it's also a sign that brand still matters. this deal is about the brand. They want the brand to be in these AI search results. One of the things that strikes me is you were talking about this being almost like a winner takes all game. And we've seen this across the economy. But when we're going into AI, it just looks like it's going to.

Alex (21:59.83)
Doei!

Brian Morrissey (22:26.414)
there's going to be some companies, individuals that are going to just uncouple from the sort of masses. And I want to tie this together with a few different things. Meta returned results, and I usually I'm like, okay, yeah, results. They grew 22 % revenue. I mean, this is $47.5 billion. This is not like growing from like a small base.

T-roy (22:42.128)
There was stag

T-roy (22:51.484)
This is a company with a 49 % operating margin.

Brian Morrissey (22:55.874)
Like it's astounding, right? You're the numbers guy, AB. Is this astounding?

T-roy (22:59.132)
I mean

Well, I just want to before AB does the AB thing, the, uh, the, of those numbers, the meta number and the Google number are just staggering. Google's quarter was $96 billion. Okay. They both run between 30 and 40 % margins. Like they're, they're enormous. mean, with huge amounts of spend. Well, I mean, NBC just announced and you know, they're still losing money on their streaming service. So.

Brian Morrissey (23:23.5)
These are better businesses than Vox Media and People Inc.

T-roy (23:32.964)
and, and, and NBC still kind of high on all the cable profits, even though they're in their kind of last, the last gasp sub life. So the, you know, what's amazing to me is we all kind of appreciated the platform power before as kind of, you know, network effect, benefactors, things that tied us all together without content costs, great repositories of data, incredible.

algorithmic driven ad machines that could pull money out of all parts of the kind of media buying spectrum, small to large. Now they're going to like, if you saw that, I think I shared a piece with you guys from the FT on the scale of these data center investments. By the way, I think that the annual number for Google and you can check me on this, but CapEx is like $85 billion. And, but if you look at

these massive, massive, gigantic computers that exist in the middle of the country and in tech, like in Texas and in Virginia and in, in, in, in, in, in Ohio, like these are incredible facilities that can't be replicated that have like, like just this kind of like, so few people can participate in this. So in the case of Google, you're making the Silicon

You own the data center. You own the data. You own the consumer interface. You have this brand. These are insanely powerful and profitable companies. just, think this chapter where now they're all fueled by these gigantic physical facilities and huge, huge amounts of compute that are impossible to replicate really give you a sense that this kind of new techno-industrial

economy led by like four or five companies is is really like a hegemony. It's pretty it's pretty crazy.

Brian Morrissey (25:37.92)
Yeah, and I think one of the things, like lot of attention has been paid to Metta and even Zuckerberg personally going out there and putting out insane offers for AI researchers. I mean, I guess maybe they're not insane.

T-roy (25:51.044)
Of course. I mean, it's like paying bro-caw in a way, right? Because they don't pay bro-caw. Alex, when I met you, it was all we could do to merchandise social media as a place that advertisers would ever run their ads. Because the idea of running against UGC wasn't a thing back then. And now, like the meta ad system

Brian Morrissey (25:56.014)
.

Alex (26:13.729)
Yeah.

T-roy (26:18.944)
is maybe one of the most important assets in the world. know, their ability to monetize a stream and decide what you get and then, know, slide ads inside of there. It's profound. It's amazing. The transformation.

Alex (26:34.154)
Yeah, I this is why it's always interesting for me to record these episodes because I live in Silicon Valley and the sheer numbers and the scale of these companies is very, both like predominant here, but also has been so normalized that numbers don't mean anything anymore. And nobody's surprised that meta can, like there's always been this joke where

If matter has a bad quarter, they just need to flip a few switches so they can get a great quarter next year. And it's important to think of these companies like the buffer that they have for things going completely wrong, right? They can spend billions on all sorts of things and it's a speed bump for them.

Brian Morrissey (27:08.206)
Well, that's the Google thing. Google's been able to do that forever.

Brian Morrissey (27:25.219)
What about the metaverse? How much money have they flushed down the toilet on that?

Alex (27:27.884)
I mean, precisely, right? And I think that what we're looking at, you know, because we've been talking about talent, you know, we have to think of these engineers and, know, and I was tech talent. I was paid a lot more than I ever expected. I was a nerd that liked computers, maybe newer divergence. So they made me happy. They were my friends, but all of a sudden, you know, I went from trying to drag everyone into forget advertising on social media, you know, putting your brand on the fucking internet, which, which felt dirty to a lot of people.

to being headhunted and treated like an athlete. And when you think of these talents, like forget Brokaw or Kara Swisher and stuff like that, once these people are gone, the company usually doesn't make that much money on you. But an engineer that builds a system that's going to run for like 10 years and accrue hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue, you know, is...

is a great investment even if you pay them millions of dollars. And once you're dealing at the scale, the tiniest little changes you can do can mean 50, 100, 150 million dollars. It's wild. And to think that these companies care about the survival of media companies is to...

Brian Morrissey (28:45.088)
No they don't. No they don't.

T-roy (28:45.882)
Yeah, Alex, point I was making is it's wild where you see, you don't see meta, you don't see Google, right? If you drive by their campus and stuff in NorCal, you'll see it. when you start to see these data centers and the amount of energy they consume, and then you see that it's not just about the data centers, it's also about the power connection, right? So they're funding nuclear and they're building...

Alex (29:01.455)
Yeah, yeah. I mean, they don't want you to see that.

T-roy (29:11.34)
know, connections to the grid. Like it really is a crazy time where you can see. And by the way, the investment in all of this in chips and power and everything that supports it could end up, is there a chance that it just blows up? Like there's a good chance it blows up, don't you think?

Brian Morrissey (29:36.116)
We could have brown outs and rolling blackouts because of all this energy.

Alex (29:36.396)
There isn't? Right.

T-roy (29:38.724)
I don't mean blows up that way, I mean becomes a spectacular bubble.

Alex (29:43.304)
Yeah, there's and there's more concern around. talking to folks here, like first, but first of all, even if we're even if we're looking at these investments, the free cashflow that these I mean, maybe we'll know better, but that these companies generate like I said, they can handle a pretty big collapse of these things. But one of the concerns is that the investment infrastructure investment, they're not five, 10, 20 years infrastructure investment. A lot of the

Brian Morrissey (29:43.901)
for sure.

Alex (30:12.972)
the cost goes into things that you could essentially consider as consumables, right? Those GPUs and things like that are consumable. Now, however, we might all benefit from the electrical grid improvements and turning on nuclear power plants if that stuff goes out.

Brian Morrissey (30:29.154)
Well, they're gonna take all the energy. So, I mean, they're not building this for us, Alex. And I'm the naive one.

T-roy (30:31.228)
Alex bring up this link I just sent you Alex.

Alex (30:34.304)
But

Alex (30:37.918)
Yeah, in which chat.

T-roy (30:40.668)
in the WhatsApp.

Alex (30:42.348)
Alright.

Brian Morrissey (30:43.342)
One thing I just on that the Mag 7 is now, which is just the name for all the top tech companies is now 33 % of the S &P 500. So you want to talk about systemic risk. I hope they pull it off because that's basically what everyone's retirement accounts are based on.

Alex (30:59.7)
I mean, Nvidia is a massive risk, just like a geopolitical risk, right? Like China starts getting interested in Taiwan again, and Nvidia has this huge risk attached to it. And the entire stock market is linked to it at this stage.

Brian Morrissey (31:12.226)
Yeah.

So one of the other things is meta, you know, they're starting to roll out their story, right? Their narrative about AI. And now it's about super intelligence, which to my mind is a great rebranding of AGI because AGI is such a nerdy like tech thing that literally is meaningless. When you say super intelligence, that's a nice brand. That's a people link. That's a nice job. Barry Diller, think, would approve of that.

rebranding. And so they're pulling it together. They're obviously paying a lot of money for a lot of researchers. And we see this time and again, I feel like with these tech companies where they master one thing and then they become capital allocators and they sit on hoards of cash and they deploy that capital. And when we're going into this super intelligence era, and I want to get into this because I was reading this economist article on it, it kind of like blew my mind a little bit and maybe it's obvious.

But to me, was putting the pieces together, which is that in era of super intelligence, let's just say it does come to fruition the way the sort of tech oligarchs are saying. I they're talking about economic growth just decoupling and basically becoming 20 to 30 % a year. And most of those gains go into a very few number of people and entities. And most of it being around who has capital to deploy.

So they're able to build these massive data centers, hoard all of this compute, take over and restart nuclear reactors for a reason, because they have a cash machine that they are now flooding into this new boom. I think that has incredible implications, because one of the things that Zuckerberg was talking about yesterday was that the AI that they have,

Brian Morrissey (33:13.73)
which by the way they have it because they can apply it to ads. Same with Google. So sorry, Apple, your anti-ads thing was a big mistake. the AI is now building more AI. And I think this is really interesting when you play out the implications of this.

AB (33:33.918)
I think in the deal context, it's not really reported that well in terms of how much value has been created with some of these relatively new AI companies when the Mag7 buys them, know, buys 49 % or does these convoluted deals to get around antitrust. But you have companies that have some AI technology

but they're effectively being acquired for the people. And the people are having significant impact. There's a business that Google acquired last year and that team went in and fixed Gemini. But there's this idea of like decoupling or the economy changing. would make the argument that it's already happening from a deal perspective where you're basically seeing deal values that would have never been possible. If you look at like what Microsoft paid for Excel.

When it first, I think Microsoft bought Excel or bought one of the PowerPoint or something. They paid like $10 million, right? If you have a good AI company today and you have the right engineers, the value is billions of dollars, which is wild. And so I'm saying something different than what you're saying, Brian, but I think we're already starting to see very significant changes. There's not a media entrepreneur today who has in their deck, besides Substack,

A goal to sell for billions of dollars. It's just not possible and the levers of building value in AI are just out of control There's we've never seen this sort of Go ahead

Brian Morrissey (35:09.13)
It's stupendous. mean, you look at like there are people and this was pointed out, this is not an original thought of mine, but like the amazing thing is not that like Zuckerberg is out there offering a billion dollars over like four years or something. It's that people are turning him down. Like who are at the Miramarati firm. Like that is like, what do they know? Like, you know, like it's one of those things I'm like, wait a second. What do you guys all know? Alex, what do they know?

Alex (35:38.732)
What do they know about what?

Brian Morrissey (35:40.226)
Well, like if you're turning down as what did you call it? Hired help. If you're hired help and you're turning down a billion dollars over four years because you're at a no revenue, no product startup in this field, what do you know?

Alex (36:02.508)
I mean.

I don't, I think, so I'm, all right, I'm like Peter Thiel answering a question. Well, here's what I think is happening. There is maybe, some of these folks sound like zealots a little bit, especially, well, especially when it comes to AGI, and it is not.

Brian Morrissey (36:13.926)
Yeah, I was just like, are you the Antichrist, Alex?

T-roy (36:15.676)
Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (36:26.488)
Sound like.

Alex (36:31.916)
There are a lot of, I think there's like maybe three camps that are the true believers in AGI and they truly believe this will change the world and this is their one shot. I mean, they're talking about curing every form of cancer, stopping death, uploading ourselves to the cloud, know, the kind of group of people. There are those who don't believe that, who believe that like AI is definitely a thing, but AGI is unlikely to happen in the way we expect it to.

And then there's folks who are definitely a little bit more about using AGI as a way to drive market energy, right? Which is just this idea that they keep kind of changing the goalposts where it's AGI is essentially anything that will replace a human job. You don't know which human job if it's data entry or tech support or whatever, but that's not true AGI.

So I think you need to look into like what's in people's hearts, right? Like I don't, I don't think anybody truly knows. I think that we have for the first time. I don't think it's a, I don't think there's a, we're used to linear trajectories in tech where you can kind of see where technology is heading here. We can see that there's a lot of overexp, there's a lot of expectations that have been set that are actually like not at all connected to reality where.

these large companies have invested in millions and we've seen very smart people at Amazon launch an Alexa that was meant to be smart but didn't do it, know, immediately started doing silly things. saw Apple screw that up. So I think there is even within people who should know better, a very fuzzy, a very fuzzy look into the future. And so don't think anybody truly knows, but if you're a zealot, then.

and you think that you're going to build God, then yeah, you'd say no to a billion dollars because that's worth a trillion dollars.

T-roy (38:21.061)
Well, I-

T-roy (38:25.752)
One of the things that defines San Francisco is this mix of techno optimism and idealism. And I think that what I'm surprised you didn't mention Alex is to a lot of these folks, these people are ick, right? Like they don't want to be part of Zuck's super intelligence plan. And they're already rich by the way. I mean, rich by any normal person's standard, they have millions of dollars.

Alex (38:54.828)
They have enough to live a very good life and they're...

Brian Morrissey (38:55.168)
They have a pull. They have a pull, right?

T-roy (38:55.932)
So I think they're in a position where they can make moral judgments. Yeah, so they own their house, have millions of dollars and they have an idea of what kind of place they wanna work and who they wanna work for, what kind of world they wanna live in. Now.

Alex (38:59.818)
In San Francisco, that's rich, yeah.

Alex (39:13.664)
And also a lot of them think that feel that time is on their side, Where they're part of a very small group of people, their value is gonna keep going up. But yeah, that's very insightful.

T-roy (39:17.766)
For sure. For sure.

T-roy (39:22.204)
The other thing that that article is really interesting and Brian, I don't know. This is an article from the economists that you sent around and part of the context is for centuries we didn't have any material productivity growth. so like humanity.

Brian Morrissey (39:36.61)
Yeah, I had no idea that we basically the economy didn't grow for like centuries.

T-roy (39:40.316)
Yeah, until we had breakout sort of innovation in the industrial economy, right? Like that's when we started to see more, more productivity growth. But what you're going to see, like at anywhere near 10, 20, 30 % productivity growth, like I don't even know how we navigate it because the point that they made in that article is we're sort of entering a phase where digital abundance meets real world scarcity. Like the price of things goes to zero. The price of a lot of things, huh?

Brian Morrissey (40:07.5)
That's the cost disease. The cost disease part is interesting to me.

T-roy (40:12.516)
Well, so just dealing with that from a social perspective and the unemployment that comes along with that and this idea that there's an AI kind of driven productivity that the couples labor from growth, right? Where, you know, you don't need the people. And then, you know, I'm not entirely convinced that the way that we develop consensus in this country or anywhere in the world is anywhere near

to manage the kinds of divergence points of view that come along with that. It's terrifying.

Brian Morrissey (40:48.972)
Yeah. I mean, it's like plumbers are going to be making like $2,000 an hour and lawyers are not. there's going to be, I don't know if that's the case. know AB does not like to hear that professional services are.

AB (40:57.093)
Yeah, I mean, I think this here's.

AB (41:02.927)
No, I mean, think even in for.

T-roy (41:03.61)
Well, AB makes a living out of referring business to lawyers.

AB (41:08.283)
Let me just talk about, there's two things here. One is, I think people's perception that this is, I think it will actually have an easier impact on blue collar jobs versus white collar. And every time I say that people are like, the robots aren't coming for a long time. I think they're gonna come a lot quicker and it's a lot easier to disintermediate blue collar people because everyone has had something break at their house and had someone come. And like the quality of service varies widely. You see this with Waymo.

Brian Morrissey (41:08.718)
He's got a dog in this fight.

AB (41:37.743)
You take a Waymo like a couple times and you're like, this is so much better than taking an Uber. Because sometimes you get into an Uber and the person has interesting music or they want to talk to you you're like, I just, I don't want to, I just want to sit here. And so I think that the blue collar work will get disrupted at a much more rapid pace. And it's not going to affect every blue collar job, but there's a lot of places where, like if you eliminate all drivers, including semi truck drivers, that's like, yeah.

T-roy (42:05.094)
Biggest category in the economy, truck drivers.

AB (42:07.778)
And like we go, well, it's just a couple of percentage. No, that's like a big, those are like a lot of really good jobs.

T-roy (42:13.318)
Does the idea of an unmanned semi barreling down the highway controlled by a robot frighten you?

Alex (42:14.922)
And there's,

AB (42:24.566)
No, because what's the alternative? It's somebody that's driving across the country. They're usually unhealthy because of those work because they're sitting 12 hours a day. They're usually hyped up on energy drinks. Yes. And so it's like you compare like we took way most in a weekend in my son was he knows he's three years old. He said hi Waymo. He got in as a consumer, early consumer. He was way more excited to take Waymo. Yeah. Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (42:35.032)
They're taking more than Zenz, AB.

T-roy (42:37.222)
Thank

T-roy (42:51.74)
Well, I'm happy that your son is happy. Yeah, it's great.

AB (42:55.374)
He's ready for the robots to control it. But here's one other interesting point that I think a lot of people are missing in the white collar world is AI for my job is actually best utilized and controlled by senior people, not junior people. But most firms are set up where most of the work is done by the junior people and the senior people are out talking to clients. And so I think it's actually gonna take a lot longer than people think for it. And there's a couple platforms already that are.

that a lot of banks are using for some of the basic outputs for investment banking. But I think to get real leverage, the senior people need to use it. And a lot of people that I talk to, they use Chatchie PT now for like fun and some research, but I think you'll see firms that will actually create new organizational structures to utilize these technologies in the right way. So AI is way more powerful in my hands than it is in a 22 year old analyst.

We just had to think fundamentally differently about how these organizations are setting up both investment banking and investing.

Brian Morrissey (43:59.854)
So I think the question I have, and maybe this is naive, Troy, I'm say that, is that when basically if AI is going to be creating the ideas, because eventually it will be, this idea that meta doesn't have to come up with new ideas, really. It's just about capital. Because one of the things that stood out to me in this economist article and piecing this all together is, and this has been out there, is that

It's just about capital. Like you just need to have capital to deploy. And I almost feel like we're in this period and maybe I'm getting too paranoid where, you know, as a kid we used to play this, you know, game by necessity where you would hit the garage door and then scramble to get under it before it closed because we didn't have like a way to close it from the outside. Oh yeah, it was, was, was a 1980s like thing. And if you didn't get out there, you know, it was going to hit you in the head. I kind of feel that with capital accumulation right now, because if you...

T-roy (44:45.624)
We did that in Regina.

Brian Morrissey (44:57.28)
Reading that article, you play it all out, you better have capital now. Because if this does come to fruition or anything near it, it's just about who has capital. Because you just plow it into, if you have capital, you can buy more compute. If you have more compute, you can have more productivity. It's not about, you don't have any leverage in ideas or thinking.

Am I missing something here? Have I gone too far into the singularity?

Alex (45:31.191)
Brian Morrissey (45:31.702)
Alex, you're a representative from the Singularity.

Alex (45:34.368)
I mean, I think, I don't know, think it's going to, there's going to be a lot of change, but it's very hard to predict it. And I find a lot of these lists and predictions. First of all, the technology is nowhere near ready. I think it's ready to do, yes, to get somebody pretty senior to work more, but I'm looking at some of the downstream effects of that and.

A lot of things are going to change and it's probably going to be really unpredictable. Like for example, if more senior people, you know, start using AI and there's less kind of, you know, shit work for junior interns to do, then what happens to internship path? Maybe we don't have kind of a talent path moving forward. I don't know. I, I have no idea.

T-roy (46:24.764)
It seems to me that we spent a long time, maybe the last several decades, kind of downplaying the importance of a type of work that may have involved some amounts of brain and manual labor, some amounts of training at tech colleges and stuff. I think that, as you guys highlighted, those will be important jobs, but kind of mid-tier knowledge work that was in some ways a kind of

a kind of category of achievement for a lot of people getting to be a, you know, a director at a bank or, or, you know, at an advertising agency or, you know, a consulting firm, that's the stuff that's gonna get really, really get hammered in the short run. And, and, and it doesn't actually, Alex, we don't, I agree with you that the technology today is so kind of wildly imperfect or unreliable, but in the short run, like

Alex (47:10.727)
I think.

T-roy (47:23.92)
that AB can do the work of 10 people is really where you're gonna see the impact.

Alex (47:27.882)
Yeah. And I think we're having a hard time predicting this stuff because we're looking at multiple points in the future and in the past, right? Like what happened when technology replaced all these jobs in the, know, agricultural jobs in the past. And then we're being promised this AGI future that may or may not come. What I feel is probably, I don't know if jobs will be whole swath replaced. There'd definitely be some categories that do that. But my expectation is that the concept of work

and career and how well defined it is will be very different in the future.

T-roy (48:01.564)
Yeah. I mean, and if AB is any indicator, I now have a kind of different perspective on him because he did spend the weekend at my house. And that guy is always on. I'm telling you, he's, you know, he's a nice guy and everything, but like, uh, he's, he's making a deck or opening his laptop or sending a text or, know, doing something 24 seven. So if that's the future, if that's the emancipated future, I don't want any part of.

AB (48:28.938)
I think Alex, hold on. I think that, I think, so I had dinner with someone earlier this week at a big venture firm and I think you would be surprised at the most, the largest firms are already starting to implement these things in very unique ways that will completely change their operating structure. There's no point for them to signal to the market that any of this is happening, right? It's a competitive advantage. And so I think a lot of this stuff is already happening.

Brian Morrissey (48:29.002)
No, agents are going to be doing that for AB.

Alex (48:29.078)
Hahaha

AB (48:58.918)
And there's large institutions that will be slow, slow movers and they're not, they don't need to change for a couple of years. But I think that there's going to be similar to how this Facebook stock is just rip. I mean, I looked at it this morning at five o'clock getting off the red eye and I was like, holy crap. Like it's up 20%, some crazy number. it, I, I think we're going to be all surprised about this, like impact when

Everyone's like, wow, there are firms that have figured this out way faster than other ones. And they've already been doing it. And then some of the slower movers, it's going to be really hard for them to catch up. The nice thing in banking is some of the larger institutions control capital and other services that the more nimble firms don't want to disintermediate. But it's already happening. At this dinner, everything that I'm thinking about this other person was, and they're already applying it.

at a pretty rapid pace and you can move so much faster. So I was really surprised.

Brian Morrissey (49:58.872)
Well, you look at what these tech companies, they've been like, find a lot of it as performance stuff, but like they've been cutting, shedding. so Meta has been like doing layoffs this year and they're still able to grow like tremendously. And to me, that just shows that the leverage of like labor is going down.

T-roy (50:19.501)
How layoffs have transformed from being the like, I'm sorry, I'm running a bad company, I'm failing to like a badge of honor in corporate America is amazing.

Alex (50:31.18)
Well, I mean, think it's incentivized, right? The market usually rewards it. Yeah, and the thing with the layoffs is I think they would happen without AI because these companies are so rich that they're very bloated. And...

Brian Morrissey (50:38.99)
The stock market has always liked layoffs.

Alex (50:53.484)
And so you can go into any of these tech companies and easily find like 10, 20 % that you could lay off. And there's also this running joke that we had in some tech companies that we could all go home for three months and the business would still grow. And that's true, right? Once you have this kind of crazy business. And they're also like kind of retrofitting AI into these layoffs as a kind of...

T-roy (51:01.765)
it

Alex (51:22.688)
The idea is that you pressure the team by making them smaller, you flatten the organizations, and then you kind of nudge people to start thinking differently about their work so that they can cover some of the gaps left by the people who might have gone. And it's working out.

Brian Morrissey (51:37.74)
Yeah, I can do this forever. Let's move on to the advertising for a bit and the new path to getting attention. Because we saw one side of the market with what Meta is doing and then Google's results were tremendous. Performance is all going towards these platforms. AI is going to be amazing at making ads more performant. Sorry, Mark Cuban, who came out and said advertising should be banned from AI engines. That's never going to happen.

T-roy (52:05.958)
Do we get to talk about Sydney Sweeney now?

Brian Morrissey (52:08.244)
Yes, we get to talk about Sidney Sweeney now because, you know, there's multiple controversies going on. And I think now the controversy is you have to do controversy to break through the algorithms and conflict is the name of the game. That is how you get attention in the information system. The Sidney Sweeney great jeans uproar, American Eagle had a new advertisement featuring actress

Sydney Sweeney. She is an actress, but she's most known within certain corners of the internet as, guess, their favorite hot woman. I don't know how, Troy, how would you describe it?

T-roy (52:51.088)
She's hot, she's a woman.

Brian Morrissey (52:52.84)
She's hot, she's a woman. So, you know, it immediately sparked debate, maybe some outrage. Some people from the more progressive side claimed it was all about eugenics. And this is, you know, basically going against inclusive beauty standards, which have become the norm in the last decade. And I have seen studies that have proven that including

plus size and inclusive models and whatnot, it actually does lead to higher sales. I don't know. That's just what the research says. Obviously, Sydney Sweeney has a very classic look. She's blonde, she's blue eyed, et cetera. I won't go into all the details, you know, she's, and the other side has celebrated this as this is a yet another, the end of woke has been going on now for longer than supposedly the woke era existed at this point.

And also, by the way, in retrospect, the sort of quote unquote woke era has become worse than the cultural revolution. I don't remember it that way, but that is how it goes. Troy, you want to take this one? To me, the story is about like the outrage and I have a broader point that I can make about Sydney Sweeney. Yeah, go ahead.

AB (54:12.926)
Well, could I start? Can I start and then I got to hop? And Alex, you can talk to but I mean, so when people make movies, right, they they the reason why they pick stars is they're worried about what the box office is going to do. And so I bet at a lot of these studios, when they consider who they're going to pick for a movie, they look at their reach on Instagram and other places and they say, OK, if we can get Sydney into our movie, we

we can guarantee 10 or 20 million of revenue and they stack that with the other stars they get. That's why you always have, if it's not an independent movie, you're trying to basically bring in a cast that will get people to the movie theater or watching in other places. I think the reason why that Alex on the screen, it'll make her more valuable is like it just introduces her to more people or reinforces her to her current audience is that she's good looking, she's relevant. And I think a lot of people that like her probably just ignore.

all this noise around people's frustration. mean, it's kind of funny. It's like, I think most really good gene advertisements have hot women. They're not always white, but usually that's part of the appeal of a good pair of jeans is they fit nicely and they have certain contours on their bodies that show it in the ad. So I don't know. I think there's a part of media that just likes to be mean or

call stuff out when it's not really that big of a deal. I think the more fun thing is a South Park episode, but I don't know if we're gonna talk about that.

Alex (55:48.116)
Yeah, I just wanted to say like, you know, none of us is really entirely qualified to talk about parts of this thing, but it does to me at first when I saw it, it's just a company looking at somebody who's, who's very popular. And I mean that in kind of the broadest sense, she's a movie star, but she's also like, you know, represented on social. She's just in the car. She's on, she's in the conversation all the time. Part of it is the way she looks, but part of it is the way kind of she.

Brian Morrissey (56:09.43)
No, she's a meme. She's a meme. That's why I think this is interesting.

Alex (56:17.782)
projects herself and is comfortable in her own skin and stuff like that.

Brian Morrissey (56:19.854)
I don't even think that's it. She just got taken over by internet culture and she became a meme for her breasts. That's what it's about. I kind of feel bad for her in some ways in that she worked really hard to be an actress. She started at 11 years old. No, no, let me just finish. I know they'd love to cut me off, but...

Alex (56:36.534)
She's a great actress.

T-roy (56:37.497)
I wouldn't feel too bad for her, Brian. She can be both. She can be both.

Alex (56:39.616)
But I.

Brian Morrissey (56:46.19)
Like she started as 11 years old as an actress. She would like drive 20 hours to go to to to auditions. And she did a PowerPoint, an extensive PowerPoint for her parents to like move so she could be like an actress. And she did. She put in the work. Then all of a sudden she became famous for something totally different, which I find these these articles say that she's well known for euphoria. Give me a break. She's not well known for that. She's known as an Internet meme. And like she might not have wanted that.

AB (57:14.864)
Yeah, but I mean, that's just the age we live in today. if Brad Pitt, like the idea that talent drives star is not true. Like it's a combination of how people look like Leonardo DiCaprio and Tom Cruise and all these people. They're amazing actors, but there's 10 of those guys in Hollywood and nine of them work at Olive Garden. And then there's one that popped and it's part timing and luck, but it's also how they look like Brad Pitt and Fight Club, like

It's an amazing job acting, but he also has an eight pack, right? So I don't think it's objectifying her body. It's just how society works.

Alex (57:55.34)
I agree. mean, the thing is just to bring it to the outrage. I haven't been able to track this, the outrage. It seems like there's there's like a scale of outrage, you know, from like beauty standards, which fine, you know, if you want to have a conversation around that all the way to the, is a nod to eugenics, which sounds kind of paranoid. Yeah. Because, because it's just, I think it was just like a,

T-roy (58:19.79)
insane yes yeah

Brian Morrissey (58:21.39)
it is paranoid. It's completely paranoid. Have you been online lately?

Alex (58:25.14)
It was a cheeky joke and it landed in a way that you really think that they're putting through a message to celebrate eugenics when they do that. And it's the type of discourse that then gets picked up. I actually don't know how big it is because most of the time as I'm seeing it, I'm just seeing it like represented in the media. could be seven people.

Brian Morrissey (58:44.236)
No, no, no, I think it's, I don't think it's genuine. I don't think anything in marketing is genuine. It's marketing. It's meant to like provoke particularly like certain corners, particularly of the media. Like that to me is the goal of this. And I think it's like kind of ingenious. mean, astronomer did something very similar in some ways in that they became the center of another sort of, and this is a little bit of throwback, another sort of viral moment when their CEO

and head of HR were canoodling at a Coldplay concert and got put on the kiss cam. So they took their lumps and the CEO got sent packing and I assume the head of HR did too. And so they hired Coldplay singer Chris Martin's ex-wife, Gwyneth Paltrow, to do a very funny and cheeky video. And we see it like here.

Alex (59:26.464)
Yep, she did, yep.

Brian Morrissey (59:41.474)
Gwyneth Paltrow was the temporary spokesperson for Astronomer. And I think this was done by Ryan Reynolds, a maximum effort agency. They're known for this kind of viral WhatsApp.

Alex (59:53.578)
was it? Amazing. That's amazing. And he probably has her on speed dial so they can move quickly.

T-roy (59:55.152)
Mm-hmm. Yes, it was.

Brian Morrissey (01:00:01.806)
Yeah, they did this really fast. In some ways, it's it's a return to like viral marketing on both sides.

T-roy (01:00:07.824)
I mean, this will win the can-line,

Brian Morrissey (01:00:11.32)
Yeah, it should.

AB (01:00:11.387)
Yeah. And think about this was probably effectively free because they fired the guy for cause he didn't get his pay package and they paid one with a couple million bucks and their money good. So.

Alex (01:00:23.788)
That's amazing. mean, it's also like analyzing their reaction when they were on that kiss cam and all the different choices that they could have made that would have not turned this into a thing. But one of the things I found, did anybody know about Astronomer before this happened?

T-roy (01:00:25.488)
Nice one.

Brian Morrissey (01:00:46.614)
No, never heard of it. Guy went to my college and I had never heard of it. Must be the most well-known person who graduated from my college.

Alex (01:00:50.41)
So, and I kept hearing the news that Astronomer CEO, and I thought it was this famous CEO that was also an astronomer. But I guess people know the brand now. It's a shame that there's no consumer product here. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Brian Morrissey (01:01:06.904)
Well, they're just like a B2B brand, right?

T-roy (01:01:09.36)
Yeah, Alex, maybe you can check me on this, while I think that everything these days becomes a kind of artifact for your own personal commentary or point of view, such that you can take something that someone's put into the, you know, to the kind of internet sphere and, you know, use it to, to, to, to kind of make whatever point you want.

I got to say that I think that the creative process behind the Sweeney thing was far more benign. and that someone said, Hey, she's hot. Let's get back to these days of like simple gene advertising, like Brooke Shields and her Calvins or like the, what was that fly me airline ad, that was, that was briefly famous where the, the sort of hot stewardesses were like saying, fly me, fly me. And there's a whole.

Alex (01:02:06.561)
those burger ads or the Go Daddy ads?

T-roy (01:02:09.476)
or the GoDaddy ads. And they said, let's take, if we can get Sydney Sweeney, let's invest the money. American Eagle has lost relevance. The stock price is down 40 % or whatever it is. She looks good in jeans. jeans. we can make a joke about that. She's got great jeans. Write that in. And that's kind of how it happened. And, and then, you know, it became a kind of fertile.

you know, piece of content for all types of conspiracies and sort of coded, you know, social aspirations. And so it became, you know, think fortunately, I don't, I don't, but I do think that good creative these days.

Brian Morrissey (01:02:47.436)
OK, so you don't think it was intentional, right?

Alex (01:02:52.276)
I really don't think that at some point in the marketing meeting somebody said, you know what, we could reference eugenics. Like, I don't think that's happened, you know.

T-roy (01:03:00.322)
Yeah, but I do. mean, they may have said, listen, people are going to talk about this for sure. And

Brian Morrissey (01:03:06.334)
They said that they meant it to provoke, and I don't understand if, let's just say they did. Like, I think that's a very good marketing strategy. That stuff that AI probably for a little while isn't going to be great at, but like you want to like push people's buttons. Look at how you get attention in media. I mean, look at the all in people. Like, I mean, this is, this is for better or worse. Everyone's a carnival barker out there looking for attention. And so being able to hack this system.

Alex (01:03:06.477)
Or that like also that like poli...

Brian Morrissey (01:03:34.454)
Seems like a good strategy.

T-roy (01:03:36.506)
I mean, I'll be curious to see if the awareness translates into sales.

Brian Morrissey (01:03:41.688)
Yeah, we'll see. Also.

T-roy (01:03:43.214)
And I would also be curious guys to see if they follow up with maybe another more diverse hot person that they can turn this into a bit of a franchise.

Brian Morrissey (01:03:54.976)
Okay, good. One other thing, Vogue has, again, I don't know if this, I never know if any sort of backlash things are real, right? But they used, they ran an AI generated ad from Guess. It was entirely created with a AI generated model. Supposedly, again, supposedly readers found it quote unquote disturbing.

because the CGI model looked, quote unquote, too perfect, sort of a bit of an uncanny valley effect, and that there was only tiny fine print that Vogue noted it was AI, and critics quickly amassed to call it cheap, lazy, desperate, particularly for Vogue, which celebrates creativity, and fashion is obviously very rooted in...

the creative.

Alex (01:04:53.644)
Is this the one that I have on screen right now? I mean, it looks like AI. It's so boring. It looks like I get ads like this on Instagram for a match three game where they just put somebody's face like that on it.

T-roy (01:04:55.739)
Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (01:04:56.428)
Yeah, then it, yeah, I know she looks totally like AI.

T-roy (01:04:58.714)
It's just incredibly boring. It's just so horrible.

Brian Morrissey (01:05:03.724)
Well, plus size models.

AB (01:05:08.238)
Here's one interesting. So this is probably a symptom of Anna stepping back and younger people being there. But I remember at South by Southwest, I watched Marques Brownlee do one of his talks. And what I realized, the really interesting thing about AI is these agents can show up more like the person they're talking to. So Marques was using

Open AI and like the voice he had was different than the one I would choose. And so you can see in this this outrage stuff is so annoying. People just need stuff to write about. I think the more interesting element here is in the future. If Conde does a better job of collecting your user data and knowing who you are, you would out here going to actually start to see it's not going to take the form in print, but in digital.

the different content that's produced, one, they don't have any money to do this stuff anymore, so they're gonna move, they have to move to AI-generated stuff, but the second thing is like the models are going to change to actually represent the person that's reading it. America is a very diverse place, it's like 30 % Hispanic. So in the future, this outreach stuff is such a distraction to what actually can happen, which is Vogue will have four or five different images.

that they've generated based on the reader that's reading it. if you're African American, it might be an African American model. you're whatever white, whatever the right term is for being white, Caucasian, it's gonna be a white person. If you're Hispanic and you want to see Hispanic persons, it's be Hispanic model. I actually think, cause that's how the AI models are. Now, when you have a thumbs up, you can make it color coded based on your skin color. But more and more, I think these media companies are gonna be creating images that resonate.

Brian Morrissey (01:06:32.877)
Yeah.

AB (01:06:58.623)
and align with who's reading it, so they feel like, this is something that someone I know, right? And so you...

Alex (01:07:03.67)
They're going to also find ways to do it where it's less shitty because I think just generating, like just generating people who don't exist. I don't know if people are going to like that, but I think, you know, models and stuff like that are probably going to license their likeness so that they can regenerate the photo shoot with like, you know, 20 different people. And it might've been even a real photo shoot and real outfits, but it can kind of refit them.

naturally, think the thing people react to oftentimes is there's like, there's no real person behind it. Even if it looks really real, once you find that out, it's very unappealing. Just psychologically, I think we have a, we have a, like a neurological response to something that isn't real. However, you know, making something that looks like somebody else and, and, and using that, I think that's going to be a lot more accepted.

Like the Trump thing.

Brian Morrissey (01:08:01.29)
Yeah, so like one note on that, like, I don't know if you have it, I put it in the chat, but like there's the top 40 occupations with highest AI applicability score that got ranked and models were on that top 40 list. And there's actually a lot of good reasons for that. Anna Wintour has noted that she doesn't like models on set because like there's so many problems with models. They're typically very young that you gotta like...

watch out for the the lecherous photographers and whatnot. as you said, 36, that's pretty high. It's not journalists, but it's pretty high.

Alex (01:08:35.468)
It's 36 on the list. And you know what? I've known a few models and I've worked in the media industry enough to know that these people are already treated like objects and I'm pretty sure that as soon as they can snap their fingers and replace them, they will do it.

Brian Morrissey (01:08:48.92)
Right.

Brian Morrissey (01:08:53.516)
Yeah, that's one of those, model is one of those professions that like architect, I think people think is far more glamorous than it actually is. I mean, you're basically being treated like a piece of meat and like you've got a bunch of like people you don't know who are like grabbing at you and changing things on you and like, so.

Alex (01:09:11.124)
Or it can be, but it's one of those jobs where you really only see, like 100 % of what you see are the 1 % success stories and you don't see the 99 % of what's really going on. So it's a very skewed view of that role. But yeah, but I think people are going to, I think that there will be, and this is fully a prediction, I have no idea, but I think that there will be, there's such a drive to generate these images quickly.

Brian Morrissey (01:09:24.877)
Yeah.

Alex (01:09:38.102)
But there's such a response to people who don't exist that there will be a lot more licensing of people's likenesses so that you can say this is a real person and people are going to start caring less and less of how the picture was taken.

Brian Morrissey (01:09:49.92)
Okay, middle ground. Should we?

Alex (01:09:52.352)
By the way, every picture you take today is a fake AI picture, even on your iPhone. That scene never existed. You never looked so good. Everything you take through a phone or a digital camera right now is being optimized in a way that makes it not a real snapshot.

Brian Morrissey (01:10:10.242)
Well, that's actually, saw something that a lot of like, quote unquote, the young people trademark are, you know, with the rise of like messy authenticity. Yeah, it's like the kind of return of Polaroid or point and shoot cameras are back a lot now because messy authenticity is in and the, like you said, the AI enabled like photos, they look too perfect. They're like, we don't want to look like AI.

Alex (01:10:24.768)
Yeah. Yep.

Alex (01:10:35.444)
Yeah, I think there's a real movement right now in just like art and design, which is like anti-aesthetics. so it's like both like people coming into age and so there's this really ugly early 2000s like graphic designers coming back. And then with videos that are shot like that are maybe overlit or underlit shot on cameras that aren't, you know,

Polishing everything up and then even the three to four four to three form factor has come back a lot of young youtubers are not doing things in widescreen they're doing in that four by three old TV form factor and And yeah, that's that's a fun thing

Brian Morrissey (01:11:22.262)
Okay, we're already over an hour. Let's do a good product.

T-roy (01:11:28.44)
Okay. One is a bit of a reflection that I just thought of now, but one is I'm really into black Australian licorice right now. I think it's delicious. They sell it at the grocery store on Shelter Island. I love it.

Brian Morrissey (01:11:30.638)
Do you have one? I have one.

Brian Morrissey (01:11:45.848)
How much does that run? that like 12 bucks?

Alex (01:11:49.324)
Six.

T-roy (01:11:49.564)
Alex found it right there. It was only five. I love that. So good.

Brian Morrissey (01:11:51.502)
What does that licorice cost? $16 for your licorice.

Alex (01:11:53.676)
$16 by the way, that's on licorice.com

Brian Morrissey (01:11:57.774)
Is that a people ink property?

Alex (01:12:02.122)
It must be. there it is, yes.

T-roy (01:12:03.542)
The other one is I was thinking today that every year around this time, I get this sort of melancholy, summertime melancholy, which is like, knowing that we're moving into August, sorry, someone's mowing my lawn.

Brian Morrissey (01:12:23.815)
This segment keeps getting more relatable. Go on.

T-roy (01:12:26.432)
Yeah, that we're moving into August. We're moving into August and you can feel, you can see the end of summer and it's beautiful outside, but you know, we all feel this thing of, you know, how the season moves so fast. And it just gives me this, you know, the summer is this thing that we build up to.

Alex (01:12:28.076)
Can you tell your masseuse to move out of the way place she's in?

Brian Morrissey (01:12:30.03)
My Zeus is here. Speed this up.

T-roy (01:12:55.398)
we really get excited about it in the spring and we kind of don't want it to end, but I guess its beauty and its virtue is that it's short lived. And I was walking today with my dog on the beach thinking that I need to just enjoy the feeling actually, that it is fleeting, but that's the beauty of it. And...

I don't want to get overwhelmed with this sort of like the end of summer is coming and it how how quickly it went by and I just want to enjoy it and not come into the city.

Brian Morrissey (01:13:34.35)
It's not even August. All right.

AB (01:13:37.258)
Summer is like the only time of the year that there isn't a holiday Right. So like such fourth of July, but like yeah, but that's not that good. But like fall has Thanksgiving Winters Christmas spring Easter. So hello. Sober is awesome. I think it's like

Brian Morrissey (01:13:42.35)
July 4th.

Brian Morrissey (01:13:52.768)
I don't know, I'm gonna be in Italy in a week and I think summer's amazing. And if you don't want summer to end, just move to Miami because it's summer all the time. So it doesn't have to be fleeting.

T-roy (01:13:58.81)
I don't think I said it wasn't amazing. I would say it's fleeting.

T-roy (01:14:04.858)
No, the thing I like about it is I was I'm a seasoned sky Brian and that's all I know.

Brian Morrissey (01:14:08.892)
yeah, I know. Yeah, that's the vagina in you. I have one very quick good product. I went to like a gelato place and I got like two scoops of gelato and I was happy. And then the guy said, okay, and you also get like a third mini scoop on like, they put a little cone in the top of the two scoops and then you got a third mini scoop on top of it. And it was just like a total surprise.

T-roy (01:14:12.998)
Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (01:14:38.06)
And it was, I thought every single business needs to find their little mini cone that they add to the product because that makes it like a unique experience. It was in Wynwood. It was called like Gelato and like Machiato, which is a strange name. Yeah, it's the one that it's like, it's just like Bushwick if it was done by like an ad agency. Yeah.

T-roy (01:14:50.224)
Where was that, Brian? Was that in Miami or in New York?

T-roy (01:14:56.164)
When would the neighborhood in Miami?

T-roy (01:15:05.07)
Okay, does Steve-Win-Mood have anything to do with that?

Brian Morrissey (01:15:08.916)
No, no, no, it's just a formerly decrepit part of town that they made into like a very branded kind of like self-consciously hip area.

T-roy (01:15:15.388)
I've been there.

AB (01:15:21.129)
My my product is that I think maybe you guys talked about this but the starlink thing is I think such a game-changing product the little I bought it at Best Buy for 500 bucks and As much as people can hate on Elon like the product innovation around what they've done and basically having fast internet Anywhere is why you could carry it in your backpack. There's this add-on Which is like this little battery so you don't ever need to plug it in I'm a little bit scared to buy it because I don't want

Chinese battery to blow up on an airplane when I'm taking it somewhere, but you just turn it on and in five minutes you have an ability to do zoom calls or watch YouTube videos and it's good.

T-roy (01:16:02.8)
Hey, well, we were playing tennis, you guys. was playing tennis with AB and he, plugged in his, he plugged in his star link and put it in the middle of the lawn.

AB (01:16:10.397)
Your internet was too slow.

AB (01:16:17.427)
We had to give you a break from playing, in between matches or whatever they're called, I could do work.

Brian Morrissey (01:16:24.878)
That's hardcore. All right, let's leave it there. I think this is a good winners take all episode. It's my working title. Oh, good.

Alex (01:16:34.284)
Yeah, I have a bad product and a public service announcement. Do not download the public preview of iOS 26. I think just, you know, I've been talking to some folks and it's a beta. So, you know, there's an expectation that it's a beta, but I've downloaded every one of these betas for years now. And

T-roy (01:16:36.249)
Okay, I can't wait.

Alex (01:16:59.158)
This is by far the one where I look at it and I say, they're gonna have to walk so much of this stuff back or change it so fundamentally that it doesn't really look the same by the time it gets released to the public. It's a pretty baffling set of changes that they did.

T-roy (01:17:17.19)
Didn't Marcus Brownlee love it? He gave it some

Brian Morrissey (01:17:19.874)
This is the liquid design stuff.

Alex (01:17:21.662)
Yeah, yeah, I mean, you can even see it in some of the screenshot of how hard it becomes to rethink. It really feels like they've designed it to look good on your kind of like your, you know, your idle screen. And then everything else feels a little, just like not thought through. It feels, it feels harder to use than it ever has. And, for the, I love new shit. I always try it out. I was excited about iOS seven, even if I

Even if it had flaws, this one is the one where I'm like, God, I really wish they kind of didn't go there because it makes it hard to look at.

T-roy (01:17:55.704)
Alex, I'd be curious to get, I really am looking forward to that home screen and that you can change, you'll notice when you change the height of the type, it dynamically reshapes the X axis and then you can, it parallaxes, you can tuck it behind an object. It's very cool.

Alex (01:18:09.717)
Yes.

Yeah, it's very pretty.

Yeah, the problem is everything else. And also on... Yeah, it's very hard. I find it hard to read.

T-roy (01:18:19.535)
Is it hard to read?

Mm-hmm.

Alex (01:18:25.132)
I find it hard, which, you know, because they're doing stuff where they try to dynamically, it's very impressive. They dynamically change the text depending on what's behind it, which looks fine when something's static, but you're spending most of your time scrolling through media on the internet. And it just makes anything that you're reading or any toolbar just completely just, you know, shimmer and change shape. it's,

Look, they're going to solve it at some point. It might need a couple of versions, but right now, know, early adopters, I would say just watch out because it makes it's not unstable, but it makes things harder.

Brian Morrissey (01:18:58.798)
So I have a question for you. How does something like this then get out the door at a company like Apple? It seems pretty obvious when people saw it. like, yeah, this isn't usable. mean, designers always do things that you're like, no, you can't read any of this.

Alex (01:19:14.9)
I'm really shocked. mean, actually, this is one of the things I don't understand what's happening. I'm really shocked because it wouldn't... I'm pretty sure that this stuff wouldn't have made it out the door and it doesn't feel essential in any way. Where the change feels like it's trying to show off a technology rather than really prove its case for why it needs to exist.

And so it's interesting. don't know. think that it shows that things that are Apple are a little, maybe they're scrambling. Now all the features that they added are actually really good. There's a lot of really great features that they added to it. The problem is the UI. And I wonder if some of this stuff got moved forward because the AI stuff landed badly and they needed a big draw.

And so it does feel like a little bit like the company has scrambled more than usual.

T-roy (01:20:13.712)
Hey Alex.

Brian Morrissey (01:20:14.126)
Yeah, they're definitely struggling. Their market cap is down to 3.1 trillion.

T-roy (01:20:19.836)
Well, that may be, but it's really interesting to contrast these wonderful device makers that obviously that live at the intersection of software and hardware with this new generation of tech company that's, you know, connected to the nuclear power grid with giant computing facilities and, you know, rock star AI scientists making, you know, this sort of future industrial economy. And you wonder if Apple's going to be a footnote in history.

Alex (01:20:20.075)
Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (01:20:51.746)
Well, I think one of the things just to wrap it around this winner take all system is that when you are this big and have this much capital, you can make a ton, a ton of mistakes. I saw a guy using the Vision Pro at the pool. That's a massive mistake. It's simply never going to happen. Sorry, Alex.

Alex (01:21:04.086)
Ton of mistakes, yeah.

T-roy (01:21:09.98)
That's a good product.

Was he sitting on a lounge chair with the headset on?

Brian Morrissey (01:21:17.516)
Yeah, yeah. He wasn't looking at the Biscayne Bay. He wasn't looking at the pool. He was locked into his metaverse.

Alex (01:21:19.27)
I thought he was in the pool. I was excited.

Alex (01:21:25.44)
Look, I gotta say, every time I put my Vision Pro back on, I'm reminded how like, what an exceptional product it is and yet how useless it is at most of the things I needed to do. Those new personas, what you see yourself in 3D, are just a glimpse of the future. They're just, you know.

T-roy (01:21:44.88)
Do remember when you were putting it on every morning, sort of cosplaying of, you know, a Vision Pro worker?

Alex (01:21:51.882)
Yeah, I I think it's actually for people who travel, I mean, A, B, right? Like you strap that Starlink to your backpack.

T-roy (01:22:00.11)
AB straps his laptop to his head. doesn't need that.

AB (01:22:00.697)
Thank you.

Brian Morrissey (01:22:03.65)
yeah, imagine that, like spreadsheets.

AB (01:22:04.645)
The funny thing, I mean, there's that book, The Circle, which became a bad movie, but in that book, it talks about this divide of people who are unplugged versus plugged. And what's interesting is more more, I'm more unplugged than ever. I read a lot of this synthetic news less. I read more books and I talk to more people. And it's kind of scary to go the other way. I don't think it's good.

Alex (01:22:11.284)
Yeah.

Alex (01:22:30.612)
No, I agree. Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (01:22:32.226)
Well, mean, that's going to be the advantages are going to be the people who have the wherewithal to resist getting sucked into a lot of the AI slop and just in general. Yeah. All right. Thanks, guys.

AB (01:22:40.933)
to the strap-ons yet. Okay.

T-roy (01:22:45.02)
See you.

Alex (01:22:45.664)
All right. See you later.

Brian Morrissey (01:22:50.286)
is an interesting little finale.

T-roy (01:22:50.425)
AB. AB, AB.

