Alex (00:05.888)
No, but you already moved this thing. What happened?

T-roy (00:09.386)
You know, we had, I took Blake to have lunch with a media CEO because Blake has started, let me back up Vanya please, AB, I took AB to see a media CEO because AB has started a new investment company, a bank.

And he needs to meet folks. So we did it. And then it was like a, you know, kind of a multi course dinner and it just took longer than I expected.

Brian Morrissey (00:43.188)
Multicourse dinner in the middle of the day? Where'd you go?

T-roy (00:50.389)
Brian Morrissey (00:51.394)
Do know what I say? You're in a gatekeep.

T-roy (00:54.12)
No, I never I'll tell you I went to.

Alex (00:56.47)
But the nice thing is at least you send us a text telling us that you'd be late, right?

T-roy (01:00.252)
Masara yeah, Blake did that. He's my assistant Masara

Brian Morrissey (01:06.346)
Okay. I don't know it. Well, nice of you to squeeze us in. I appreciate that.

Alex (01:10.378)
Well, yeah, thank you. This might be a short one, so let's go.

T-roy (01:12.992)
You know.

Brian Morrissey (01:16.428)
Yeah.

T-roy (01:17.681)
We got a really big show today, folks. We got Alex Schleifer, we got Brian Morrissey, the one and only, and we have a big agenda.

Brian Morrissey (01:26.634)
Is that what you want me to do?

T-roy (01:28.392)
No, but there is such a thing as podcast voice. It's when people really put a lot of energy into it with like lots of Casey Newton is the king of it. This is Casey Newton from platformer.

Brian Morrissey (01:37.482)
Yeah, he does.

Alex (01:37.727)
Yep.

Brian Morrissey (01:40.609)
Yeah.

Alex (01:41.12)
This is Alex Schleifer from People vs. Algorithms and today we're talking about how Troy is always late.

Brian Morrissey (01:44.16)
I don't do that.

I don't do that. sorry, just not, and, the reason I don't do that is because it's very performative. And I think that we are entering into an age where performativeness and performance has overtaken the internet. So let's get started. I am Brian Morrissey and Troy Young has arrived a bit late. Appreciate you squeezing us in Troy.

Alex (01:49.995)
What?

T-roy (01:51.52)
This is more indie.

Alex (02:15.084)
Finally.

Brian Morrissey (02:18.1)
And Alex Schleifer, Alex and I have been catching up here. He's just back from Copenhagen, another failed European society.

T-roy (02:26.388)
I'm glad you guys had time to catch up because when you first met in meat space, like after spending a lot of time together on podcasts, it was a little awkward.

Brian Morrissey (02:36.018)
You keep saying this is my like, I'm awkward in person. is the...

Alex (02:37.451)
Did you say that?

T-roy (02:39.968)
You're great on camera though. guys should see AB's new digs,

Brian Morrissey (02:48.258)
Are they good? Does he have a cubicle for me? I'd love to work in the...

T-roy (02:48.736)
Oh my god, it's great. He lives in... Yes.

T-roy (02:56.508)
It's probably one of the few weird kind of brutalist buildings in the West Village. It's great.

Brian Morrissey (03:04.32)
Okay. I'm into it.

Alex (03:04.574)
Okay, all right. Well, good for him. It turns out that being a banker still pays.

T-roy (03:11.589)
it's not paying yet. I think this is all on the come.

Brian Morrissey (03:15.01)
All right, so just to set up what we're going to talk about today because we've got some feedback that.

Alex (03:21.024)
Do want to introduce the podcast? We actually haven't done it.

T-roy (03:24.052)
We did it already.

Brian Morrissey (03:24.258)
Put him in. Yeah, just do it.

Alex (03:26.164)
Really? Okay, sorry. Go ahead.

T-roy (03:28.128)
Alex, I think one thing we have to do is let Brian drive because you and I just get on its case all the time. Let the guy fucking drive.

Brian Morrissey (03:28.47)
Didn't I?

Brian Morrissey (03:33.89)
All right, yeah, thank you, Troy. Appreciate it. I'm just off doing a panel moderation, I'm used to this stuff. Yeah.

Alex (03:41.673)
I see it warmed up.

T-roy (03:43.818)
Tell the people what we're going to tell them, Brian. I got a note from someone saying that it was all over the map last week.

Brian Morrissey (03:50.624)
I wanna know who it is. We're gonna talk about performative reality or the lack of reality in the information space. And we'll touch on a bunch of different things. But I really wanna start with this sort of uncanny feeling that like the old internet is truly dead. And I went back to this Max Reed 2018 piece about how much of the internet is fake. And at the time,

That kind of fakeness was around bots, fake metrics, engagement fraud. And it was all side effects really of the optimization economy. But I think now it's gone deeper and the internet itself is becoming synthetic. It is no longer a real place in many ways. AI synthetic content has finally surpassed the content that is being created by humans. And I think we all sort of feel it in our

in our souls, if you will, the line between fake and real keeps blurring and perhaps even more disturbing, it might not even matter. And I think in this kind of environment, what I sort of hit on is that performance is really the organizing principle and it's always performance in the service of a narrative. And that's why we're seeing, I think, institutional media lose ground continually, is because

there aren't experts at the performance aspect of it. so they're losing ground to those that are. There was an article about how Trump has failed his administration with media figures, cable hosts, YouTubers, et cetera. And one of the MAGA meme lords had a good line in there. He said that it doesn't have to be true, it just has to go viral. I think we're seeing that.

across the board. let's discuss this a little bit. Help me unpack what is going on. Troy, want you, I know you have thoughts on this.

T-roy (05:55.873)
I have a half-baked thought, Brian. And it's not about whether it's happening or not. It's about what kind of world we're gonna be living in.

Brian Morrissey (06:03.18)
Perfect.

T-roy (06:14.304)
and that our notions of fake versus real or truth versus lies are those becoming outdated ideas to describe how we navigate the world. And that has, you know, the internet kind of threw its evolutionary moments, you know, from sort of, you know, I don't know, its document period and then communications and then social and then became transactional.

Now it's sort of your thought partner and increasingly synthetic to, know, I think that there are people like Mark Zuckerberg that would like to make it ambient and all around us. And through all of that, more of our existence is sort of connected to the reality that is the internet. I wonder if...

you know, the kind of idea that something is real or fake just stops mattering. And what, you know, what really matters is do you see yourself in the narrative? And does it tell, is it, is it, you know, consistent with the story that you want to believe or the one that fits with your sort of self identity?

Brian Morrissey (07:25.312)
Hmm.

T-roy (07:36.373)
And that's really all that matters. Obviously there's the consequence of, you know, fake versus real when it comes to, you know, many things in our world, whether it's, you know, driving a car, you know, guns or money or transactions, but.

like a big part of the place that is in any way related to kind of the importance of a story and interpretation of things in our world is becoming entirely subjective. And I just wonder how like, we're not going back, right? So where does it go next is really what I'm trying to kind of get my head around. And is it just that

Like suddenly, you know, the institutions and kind of moral system that we understood as defining a line between truth and fake kind of reigns supreme again because we get a new president or, you know, something else happens. I don't know, I don't think so, actually. I think increasingly we, you know, a big part of our lives are lived in this kind of narrative simulation.

and will develop new language and understanding of what it means to live in that world. Now I get that this is kind of an, you know, a fuzzy idea, but I think it's actually, I think it's actually an interesting thing to try to understand.

Brian Morrissey (09:14.676)
Yeah, Alex, you're in the video game world. And I think for those of us who are just getting immersed in this, what do we have to expect? Because I do feel like we are, I don't know if you guys feel this way, but I increasingly feel like we're living in some kind of video game.

Alex (09:34.507)
Yeah, I mean, I think and then also I wonder sometimes if we're not, to play devil's advocate here, we're not overreacting and we're overreacting to something that is potentially going to happen and we don't really understand it because it's changing, but.

I feel that in some ways, like we have become disconnected from reality, right? We're experiencing a lot of things behind the screen, but you know, that used to happen in the 80s. And I feel like in the 80s, I didn't have a direct connection with the people creating my content. I didn't have any sort of relationship with them. I didn't have any sort of access to them.

And yes, you know, we are seeing Sora too, and we're seeing all this kind of AI slop take over your Instagram feed. but I wonder how much impact these things have in general, right? I feel like in general, I feel like I'm, I have more authentic relationships with the media figures that I follow. And that seems to be the case even with younger generations where,

However, like, you you can look into like the kind of the biochemistry of the brain and what it does to us to spend for kids to spend time on Fortnite or in front of their phones. A lot of that stuff remains like kind of social, partially social experiences. So I wonder, like I am actually, I've been thinking about that a lot and I keep kind of plotting this line where I end up in a world that Troy

playing, you know, is describing, which it doesn't matter if it's true or false. The only thing that matters is if the fiction talks to you in a meaningful way and you feel included in it. But at the same time, I think that, you know, whatever seems to be happening now, like I also have way more direct connection, more meaningful connections with the people who create my media, both directly and indirectly, right? So it's interesting.

Brian Morrissey (11:53.708)
Hmm.

Brian Morrissey (11:57.612)
So for now, mean, Michael Mcnano, who I believe is a VC at Lightspeed, had a good substack in which he wrote about the next phase being that creators will be replaced, that the platforms, first they disempowered media companies because you can easily shove around millions of individuals, so much easier than like whining.

there.

against these tech companies. So they're like, yeah, let's go into the creator economy. But you're seeing, at least in this is his argument, that instead of relying on individuals, right, that we talk about a lot to supply the content, well, they're just gonna supply the content that is synthetically. And Mr. Beast has talked about this being like a major threat.

to the creator economy. And I don't know, maybe we live in a time when everyone is just paranoid because of the increasingly insane predictions about AI as they light on fire more and more money. But his point was, we are now entering the third and final phase of social media. Platforms love distribution efficiency because it drives consumption and this third phase, they're guaranteed to get it.

As generative models improve, platforms will pair on-the-fly content creation with algorithmic distribution. Instead of sourcing from creators, they can create content tailored to individual preferences at scale. Production shifts from human to synthetic.

Alex (13:37.494)
Yeah, well, went, right. So it went, I mean, this is the thing, right? This is the, and there's new data coming out of Metta from court filings that shows that, you know, we've known that social networks started about, it was about talking to your friends and family, right? Then it went to following celebrities, then it went to following everything and from everyone. And Metta just revealed that,

Only 17 % of time spent on Facebook today is content from friends. And so, maybe that's not astonishing, but it's like down from 20, 100%. And they're showing this data to prove that they're not a dominant, like the dominant social media platform because they're no longer social media, they're just media, right? So they disavow on the social network term. And I think that like,

Brian Morrissey (14:13.448)
Yeah, because they're not showing it. I mean, go figure.

Alex (14:34.759)
Is that, but does that mean that interaction is just pushed to other creators, which could be fine, right? Which could be real. is it, is the pushed, is there this third phase where the push becomes fully synthetic? Because that's the most, you know, that's the most efficient for them to just generate stuff that they put in front of you that is never connected. I don't know.

T-roy (14:56.318)
Yeah, I don't know man. It's a good question. Nothing becomes fully anything in media, the what have you guys played with Sora Brian? Have you played with it? So just a couple comments, because I use it for the first time yesterday. The onboarding is is really remarkably easy. You you take a picture of yourself, turn your head left and right, and then you read three numbers on the screen.

which is apparently enough for it to get your articulation, your mouth movements, and your voice. So the onboarding literally takes, what, 30 seconds? And I then started prompting it to make videos of me rapping. And I made Fat Troy. just F.

Brian Morrissey (15:43.788)
So the pH.

T-roy (15:48.423)
And I'll share them with you. My wife then took them and sent them to our all of our friends back in Saskatchewan, which I think that they were basically indistinguishable from reality other than I had gained like 75 pounds. And it was kind of funny. And I've heard from multiple people that they spent days with friends in the last like week or so making these cameo fueled AI video.

Alex (16:16.959)
Yeah cameo is that term for like a copy version of you that they can use

T-roy (16:17.97)
the

T-roy (16:22.92)
Yeah, and then another product insight was that I can take your cameo and build it into my video so I can prompt around you and around myself. And I think that the only thing, the most sort of addictive and powerful force in the media world is always you, right? It's you starring in, it's content about you. And social media can improve that, right? Everybody wants to be in the show.

I mean, listen, there's always gonna be times I still listen to vinyl and I'll still watch long from content and we'll go to movies and stuff like that. But more and more and more of you just have to look at it over a longer arc and imagine a world where these tools, I mean, become so sophisticated that we can, you know, prompt machines to just to make incredible visual, like accurate worlds.

Brian Morrissey (17:17.931)
Hmm, yes.

T-roy (17:18.622)
that we are in and there's so little friction in it, Brian. It's not just the onboarding. It's like, I can give it a vague prompt and it'll write me singing like rapping a song. It'll write the song.

Brian Morrissey (17:30.786)
This sounds very wholesome and enjoyable and really great for engagement. Unrelated news, Chachi VT is opening itself up to what Sam Altman chastely calls erotica. So now combine that with this move.

T-roy (17:36.979)
It.

T-roy (17:48.031)
Well, I think they're related and I thought that was interesting for just the simple observation that people talking in sort of intimate and therapeutic ways to chatbots is a huge use case for these graphs, massive. So much so that they needed to put the guard worlds on, but they really needed to circle back and make sure it could be used for that use case.

Brian Morrissey (18:12.352)
Yeah, it just doesn't seem like necessarily a healthy step with the loneliness epidemic and the various other epidemics for this. I don't think anyone saw this, maybe some pervs, and said, wow, this is great, this is tremendous.

Alex (18:34.099)
No, mean, and we saw it that when they released Chad GPT-5, they kind of nerfed the Chad GPT's attitude and just personality and turned it more into a tool. And a lot of people hated that. I think that we're going to get tools of creation that provide no friction.

the ability with no friction to create pretty extensive works, right? And whether or not you want to call them that or not is a different story. I wonder, first of all, like, when everything, when there's an abundance of everything, like, where's the value? when, you know, and I think sometimes it's... Yes. And, you know, being a, making movies,

Brian Morrissey (19:24.81)
the value is in whatever is scarce.

Alex (19:32.011)
in the early days of cinema was really easy. All you had to do was shoot a fucking train coming to the station. And that was your avatar of the summer, right? Like people would line up to see train arriving at the station. And then it was like, wow, this one has sound and this one has color. if you, and if, and everybody kind of expressed themselves creatively through that and try to tell new stories. Now there's going to be just an explosion of tools. And I think we're kind of leapfrogging to a stage where

at least a certain type of media content will be zero friction and zero cost. Now that is if the economics keep working out because I don't believe the economics workout. think there's like so much, these companies are burning through so much money and it's unclear whether or not they can make advertising work. They're not making, DAI platforms, I think this whole thing is.

I mean, I'm I mean, I worry, right, because the numbers we're talking about, you know, we're not subsidizing Uber here. Like it's it's it's way bigger than that. And we're talking about, you know, trillions of dollars spent on and, you know, companies like Nvidia, you know, investing in companies that buy Nvidia cards and all that type of stuff. think like, you know, there is a there's a there's potentially like this could be the golden age where we feel like remember when we could all generate this for free.

Brian Morrissey (20:57.666)
you

Alex (20:58.963)
But let's say keeps going. Let's say we don't worry about it. I think the thing that Sora did that's really clever is that they made it all about yourself, right? And what Meta didn't, because Meta has no taste or no understanding of like how people are, Meta did something similar. They jammed it into the AI site and they just let people prompt generative video and they thought that that would be it. But by focusing in on like, hey, generate...

create your own content, they create a lot more value because then they, you you are only, you're technically the one that can create your own content unless you explicitly allow others to do so. And you put it out there. So there's value for you, which is a great place to start and then there's value for your friends and maybe it goes beyond that. So I think there is a real future for this type of content. But the question is like, you know,

Brian Morrissey (21:48.662)
Hmm.

Alex (21:53.31)
What does that do to authenticity and all of these things? we just going to be completely immune to that? Because the strange thing that's happening alongside this, is that shows like the nightly shows, like traditional TV, are actually losing out because people are finding these shows really inauthentic and they'd rather listen to some guy with a bad mic talk about the news on a podcast.

Right? So I know we're seeing technology and media go one way, but at the same time, we also see culture bifurcating and going totally towards authenticity to the point that like things that are overproduced aren't performing as well. Does that make sense? And I wonder where it balances out.

Brian Morrissey (22:36.468)
Yeah. One data point on that with the numbers working on it. The FT got a hold of some financials, OpenAI. They're going to do $13 billion in revenue this year, which is pretty good, right? The problem is they're going to spend about a trillion dollars on compute in the next 10 years. In the next 10 years. In the next 10 years. So they got to make those numbers work. And it's an interesting point that you make.

T-roy (22:54.912)
They're not going to spend a trillion dollars this year. They're going to spend.

Alex (23:03.775)
Yeah, it's also the language.

Brian Morrissey (23:06.134)
that you make Alex about like what passes as sort of authenticity in this kind of environment. I've been using, do you know Lex? I've been using that AI editing tool. It's basically like a word, right? like a word, like word program. you, Google Docs. But you can also use it to, it's like, check it for brevity, for grammar, for repeating and stuff.

And so I use it, like, okay, great. Like I don't have an editor and I would rather not to use the passive voice and whatnot. And the end result of it though, even just that, it's almost like I read it and I'm like, yeah, this is good. It just doesn't sound like me as much. So I don't know if that's just me being a writer or.

T-roy (23:57.697)
Yeah, mean, listen, it's the economic bed of our lifetime, Spryne. And the way that I look at it, and there is an, I don't know whether it's a trillion dollars or more collectively across the hyperscalers and everyone in the industry that's gonna fund a new set of infrastructure to power.

you know, this kind of new modality of computing that we're all really excited about. But in the end, someone pays for it, right? And you have to believe, and I think, you know, there's bears and bulls on it, right? You gotta believe that either consumers will find it deliriously either useful or entertaining such that they'll pay 20 bucks a month for it. Okay, so let me keep going. That...

Brian Morrissey (24:37.474)
Only 5 % do right now for OpenAI, according to the F2.

T-roy (24:43.528)
that Walmart today, was announcement today, was Shopify two weeks ago, and Etsy the same week, that more and more more commerce will be, they've dumped their catalogs effectively into the AI, into ChachiBT in partnership with OpenAI, and that that environment will become a nexus for commerce, and if it does, it's worth a whole lot of money, and they're clearly

in that case, just taking money from television, from media broadly, and from Google, right? And that increasingly, you can break it down by class different types of workers, right? So like the service industry will find that either they'll use AI to be materially more efficient in how they deploy people to solve problems such that AI will capture more and more and more of the value.

Alex (25:16.735)
Google.

Alex (25:20.885)
Yeah.

T-roy (25:43.189)
whether it's in healthcare or in marketing or in consulting or in the legal profession, huge swaths of labor essentially will be augmented by AI and that that value will be captured. And that all of those use cases, and I'm sure there are others, just all add up to a huge amount of money that's gonna pay for all these new data centers.

And I think that what I would, my learning would tell me that.

America's a pendulum nation. Everything always swings too far one way or the other. That inevitably there will be an unconstrained deployment of capital which will be used irresponsibly by many. that what really, that that compute will be absorbed and it'll be absorbed in economic ways ultimately. And really what's happening is there's a bunch of people in Silicon Valley including like ex-Googlers.

that are whispering in Sam Altman's ear saying to him, listen, now is your time. This is what happened to Google. And when you're in a position where you have the attention of the world and 800 million users, you go hard. And you go hard on everything. And you made the point last week in the email, Alex. You go hard on everything. And it's time to do it now. And it's OK, because by the way, the capital you're taking is very inexpensive because your valuation is so high.

Alex (27:01.299)
On everything. You go up, everything.

T-roy (27:15.646)
so you can make all kinds of crazy deals and go nuts and listen through this process, the uninformed or the people that don't have the same insight or sophistication or whatever, many people will get burned, but this compute will be absorbed in some shape or form. That would be my take.

Alex (27:31.081)
Yeah, but I think there's an inevitable path to...

to open AI becoming a better Google. And by that, mean, yes, it will subsume like a lot of stuff that TV does and things like that, but like it is already, it's a better Google. It's a better Google to search, to shop. So they're building all this tooling in. Now, when it comes to creating media, I think we've already seen it change things, but I wonder like people use a lot of different tools, right? Like I know that there's often this talk of like when you start seeing

a trajectory where companies starting to consume all the different parts of our lives that you think that in the future, that one thing said in the future, you know, everything will become subsumed with this way of doing things. I, you know, and at the same time, we've seen like, how people use different tools all the time, right? People experience media in different ways. There's, there's,

things aren't entirely linear like that. the real thing, and because when we're talking about authenticity, I don't care about authenticity when it comes to, find me this magnetic, max safe battery pack that will fit my phone and work with my case. Like that, I don't care, right? But as we, the question is like, how much of our time engaged with media or with screens or whatever is going to be spent with content that is

authentic, non-generated and real, right? Because we're hearing people warning us about the dead internet theory, right? That like most content on the internet is going to be bots talking to bots. That Sora is scaring the shit out of everyone.

T-roy (29:12.724)
Well, that's the way we do it. People are you got to be more specific because that's a stupid idea. I'm sorry. Like. As soon as it's bots talking to bots, no one will use it, but people will use, you know, generated entertainment that stars them and their friends, and that will take up spectrum from everyone else. There's no doubt about it. That is going to happen. That is definitely going to happen.

Alex (29:21.237)
But it doesn't, it's both.

Alex (29:42.526)
Absolutely.

T-roy (29:43.616)
And the idea that suddenly the internet is useless is ridiculous. It's nonsense. It's people that, it's just contrarians trying to get attention.

Alex (29:53.35)
I agree with you.

Alex (30:02.54)
But I do feel like I think a lot of the old, I think the people that are mostly scared and why a lot of this stuff is getting a lot of media attention is that it'll change motes, right? It'll change motes. honestly, like being a great English speaker that can write and knows all the vocabulary is a mote. Being a Hollywood studio that can allocate $100 million towards a movie is a mote. Being a broadcaster that has radio channels,

T-roy (30:06.208)
Look at what.

Alex (30:31.547)
is a mode, like all of these modes are going away. And so what happens, like, you know, like, no longer need a team, I can create all this stuff, right? and we're seeing this with YouTube creators are worried about it. Like, you know, like people like MKBHD create these like elaborate setup, like high production values, they use expensive cameras, they use color correction, they use all that stuff, right? And all that stuff's going on.

T-roy (30:55.2)
You know, that's because they were triumphant when they disrupted old-fashioned institutional media. Someone's making it easier and faster than them. Listen, humans re-root the system around shit that doesn't work. It's already happening with broken webpages. When I see video players and all kinds of bullshit on a web page, I root around it.

Alex (31:03.935)
The old media. Right. Exactly.

Brian Morrissey (31:04.842)
Yeah, the disruptor has always become disrupted.

Alex (31:10.598)
All right, yes.

T-roy (31:23.272)
And that's why email became important and that's why Substack became important and that's why Instagram continues to be important. And so like we just root around it and we find other stuff. And on the entertainment, I'm just saying on the entertainment front, if I was gonna short anybody, I would short Hollywood and I would go long on AI entertainment. That'd be.

Brian Morrissey (31:43.618)
Okay, so you think that just takes out entertainment time from home.

T-roy (31:47.06)
I don't think anything takes out anything. I think that it just reduces the amount of time and it disrupts the economy.

Brian Morrissey (31:52.534)
Well, that's what I mean. I don't mean it takes it out like zero. I'm just saying there's only so much time that people necessarily have. think it seems like these AI answer engines are actually adding to search. So it's actually additive. Like the search markets become bigger. And that's why I think Google is going to go fully into the AI overviews.

Alex (31:55.057)
I think I...

Alex (32:05.14)
Yes. Yes.

T-roy (32:13.056)
The legacy that I would focus on that I did a bad job of articulating before is that we are in fact living in a post-truth world, Brian. And I think that the lasting legacy of Trump and the way the internet has changed us all creating and being in our own narratives is that in all the places where we used to rely on the integrity of fact and narratives, that's going away.

Alex (32:13.919)
What is AI entertainment?

Brian Morrissey (32:36.034)
Brian Morrissey (32:41.58)
But there's a, come on, it's not going.

Alex (32:45.545)
You, you, but, but...

T-roy (32:45.728)
It's badly wounded, Brian.

Alex (32:49.525)
But I think that's...

Brian Morrissey (32:49.634)
I mean, maybe the web pages are going away.

T-roy (32:51.112)
I mean, it's a continuum, right? Like on the far side, you have facts, facts from the government that you may or may not believe. In the middle, you have the Financial Times and maybe the New York Times or something that you do believe, maybe, if you don't put bias into the equation. And on the far side, no, further down, you have the New York Post that writes so heavily towards a point of view that you can't fucking believe anything they're saying anyway. And then on the far right, you have

fucking TikTok videos.

Brian Morrissey (33:21.506)
I say I ran into the CEO of the New York Post this morning, Sean. He's a guy.

They had the Hunter Biden laptop. Give them their laurels. You didn't believe that.

Alex (33:30.059)
But did you feel, I mean...

Alex (33:35.751)
Right. I think, I'm not sure. mean, I think that at the end of the day, think, no, it's not a bad theory. And it could go down that path. And I think it's a pretty nihilistic and maybe like, you know, I'm surprised you came up with this because you actually love people, but it implies that people just want to, you know,

T-roy (33:41.662)
I thought I had a good theory.

Alex (34:00.458)
get what they feel is true and is kind of celebrates themselves and that's how they seek.

T-roy (34:04.511)
Yeah, it's partly that Alex and it's partly, you also have to remember that the distribution piece, which is algorithmic and personalized is a big part of the kind of breakdown in what used to be facts and institutions. Because it's not just that that content's being created, it's not just that our procession of truth is subjective increasingly, it's that we're all living in little.

you know, tubes of, of, of, that, that are personalized to our points of view. It's, it's really a fragmentation too.

Alex (34:39.626)
Right.

Right. But at the same time, mean, just probably being overly optimistic here as algorithms and AI tools increase, they might be able to like better get you to the truth rather than you having to jump through interfaces.

T-roy (34:56.896)
Holy shit, what is happening here? You be me for a while and I'll be you?

Brian Morrissey (35:01.962)
This is the inversion.

Alex (35:02.315)
I do find, I mean, it's hard because we get politics involved and everything like that. But let me just like, it's hard to, let's go back to commerce, which is maybe less loaded. I don't feel like I'm being given the truth when I search on Amazon. I don't feel that this is a genuine experience that is targeted at getting me the truth. I don't trust the reviews anymore. I don't trust the first results. I always...

Brian Morrissey (35:30.752)
I don't trust Reddit and neither do these AI engines anymore because everything gets gamed on the internet.

Alex (35:32.244)
I d-

Alex (35:37.257)
Yeah, but I find that using my eye, can kind of prompt it into a specific direction that gets me to a better truth. And I have done better purchases from that. Right? Like, Hey, I saw this. I.

T-roy (35:48.904)
I don't believe that there's any truth in there and I don't believe there ever was.

Alex (35:53.11)
hang on, I saw this Instagram ad for the special type of screwdriver that has this magnetic lock on it. Is this good? it a scam? Yes, these screwdrivers are good. Here's the actual brand that created it first. All these Instagram things lie. Here's some Reddit posts about it. Here's some forum posts about it. Like that would be research that is impossible for me to do. And I do believe that I got to a truth that is better than what I saw on Instagram.

better than what Amazon showed me, better than what the first result of Google was because I applied my own lens to it. And I think this is where like, I don't think AI is by definition, kind of like, obfuscates the truth, right? Now it can manipulate the truth, but I think that because you control it much more than a Google search result or Amazon search result in this case, I think I got to the truth better. I, so, you I don't.

I don't think it's a linear path towards everything being fake. Now, here's the thing. Like what I think is definitely going to happen in which, and I don't know what AI video actually is. I think everything's going to be AI video. Your camera and your iPhone right now is AI video. Nothing you shoot on your camera is an actual real scene. Everything's been modified when you zoom into something, your skin tones, the color of the sky, everything, right? And I think that's going to happen more and more. I think there's going to be more and more influencers that use

more more filters to like light their room or make their sound better. You know, that's kind of like in the, you know, the kind of more innocuous side of it. And then all the way to changing their face and their voice and then gender and whichever way they want to say whatever type of message, the amount of ads that are fully generated by AI that looked like some podcast that I get on Instagram is crazy. Now,

Brian Morrissey (37:35.788)
Can I be an old person here for a minute? Like who wants this? Aren't we just assuming and there's-

T-roy (37:38.24)
Yeah.

Alex (37:39.495)
Nobody.

That's the.

T-roy (37:42.644)
Can you go on? Can you be more specific, Brian? Who wants what?

Brian Morrissey (37:46.348)
Well, like this world that you're painting, like where nothing is tangible, it's impossible to understand what's real. Like to me, the opportunity for like, let's say someone in media is to simply exit, is to exit trying to make sense in this world and to play a different game. Like I just think that there, I think that there's more, maybe I have more faith in human agency that a lot of people will reject.

being immersed in this ambient world of fakeness. I just don't, yeah, fine. like, you know, I'll, I'd love to see your, you know, Fat Troy, you know, hip hop video. Okay. But I'm not going, I'm not gonna live in that world.

Alex (38:29.419)
What are you talking about? You see Fat Troy every week. Bye bye!

T-roy (38:32.384)
I really want to hear. I'm almost tempted to have Alex put it up. You want to see it guys? We'll do it right now.

Brian Morrissey (38:40.162)
I'm happy to see it and I'm sure it's very amusing, but the idea that that is going to be my world is ridiculous. I'm going to still read

Alex (38:41.577)
That's it.

T-roy (38:48.17)
Alex, you're literally gonna go nuts because you're gonna like it so much.

Brian Morrissey (38:52.258)
If I'm the last person on the earth reading a book, I'm gonna be that person.

Alex (38:52.619)
Hey look I'm sure it's very fun.

But I'm sure it's very fun, but we've had lots of little fun moments. And I'm sure it's fantastic. Look, here's the thing. Here's the thought. Well, by the way, the JibJab guys, just the Spirit Ellis brothers, that's what I think they're called. They just opened, they got funding for an AI animation studio. Let me see, was it on the WhatsApp?

Brian Morrissey (39:02.454)
Yeah, JibJab was fun. Elf yourself, great.

Brian Morrissey (39:14.88)
Hmm. They were patent trolls.

T-roy (39:16.102)
Alex, did you get it by the way?

Brian Morrissey (39:25.142)
I wrote many articles about Elf Yourself. was this seminal moment of microsites.

T-roy (39:28.212)
Yeah, this is better, but you're right, it's the same spirit.

Alex (39:32.632)
It's a similar spirit for sure, but I feel like...

I feel like the conversation actually is I think more interesting when we talk about scarcity, right? Brian, you mentioned that the train coming to the station, right? Now, once five people managed to trains coming into the station, that had no value anymore. And I do think that we're going to bump against the scarcity issue like really, really quickly, really, really quickly when it comes to this stuff.

because we get bored incredibly easy. It's amazing even just like seeing there's something in video games that happens and, and, and, and, and, you know, don't know if it's been studied, but you know, you watch something in, in 20, 2005, you would walk into somebody playing the latest NFL football game and, know, parents and stuff like walking into a kid's room thought that they were watching actual TV, right? Because the graphics were so close and mind blowing.

The same people, you watch that today, your brain has been completely refactored into seeing this as looking completely fake and polygonal and stuff like that. And so our ability to adapt to things and adjust to things and seek scarcity and try to find something that doesn't look like stuff that came before it. I think we cannot underestimate that. It's a pretty huge.

Brian Morrissey (40:54.976)
Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (40:59.296)
So do you know the term anamoya? It is a term that for, it's nostalgia for a period you never experienced before. And this afflicts a lot of young people apparently. And there's something there, I believe. And that's why I keep going back to real.

Alex (41:09.612)
yes, I wrote about this. Yes. Yeah, it's a great word.

T-roy (41:09.632)
Great work.

Brian Morrissey (41:26.174)
experiences. When I, had a breakfast earlier today with a lot of publishing executives and it's just, it's remarkable to me how much they've almost just given up on websites and web pages. I mean, they still operate that business. They still want to like, you know, eke out as much as they can from traffic and whatnot. But all they're talking about is like doing, is doing events, doing tent poles, doing franchises.

Alex (41:54.75)
Isn't this a little bit like the movie studios, know, stars of the silent era, like not knowing what the fuck to do when sound came on. they were like, you know, like we've had these moments over and over where a technology shifts and people are left completely, you know, wrong footed as to how to handle it.

You know, and instead, like it should be like, wait, you guys are media creators. The tools are becoming so much better. You should only have amazing websites, you know, but in fact, like they only see like, this website that we created that was, you know, made for the world five years ago is no longer working. So let's throw everything out and you know, everything, you know, the digital side of things is dead. let's shift completely entirely into like.

Brian Morrissey (42:45.803)
Yeah.

Alex (42:45.887)
you know, real world experience people, it's a, it's like a huge lack of imagination I'm finding because in fact, people's demands for media, is, is, is, is bigger than ever. think people end up reading more, watching more, consuming more stuff. They need stuff of all types of quality. Sure. You hear data about like, you know, kids just like being stuck to AI sloppy at hours a day, but that's because, you know, there's nothing really competing with it at this moment.

I don't know, I think we're in a weird time, but I feel like, like, people get bored. People get bored.

T-roy (43:23.584)
Yeah, just guys watch. mean, it one of the great ways to watch platform shifts and their effect on culture and people is US elections. So you'll recall, you know, six years ago or or and the election before it that was and Brian, you'll know more about this than me, but that was sorry. Come on. You're ruining my it was the quarter election. Right. And this was this was, I don't know, the podcast election or the

Alex (43:43.989)
Hahaha.

Brian Morrissey (43:45.936)
Alex (43:47.243)
Yeah.

T-roy (43:53.195)
TikTok election, let's just see what happens with fake content in the next election. And with things like Sorath, it's gonna be mayhem. And I guess what I'm curious about, and we may never resolve it on this podcast, is where do we go next? And what is a resting point that's reasonable? Because we had a kind of semblance of agreement around institutional.

Alex (44:00.557)
it's got a messy few years, right? Well, mean, the thing that, and the thing...

Brian Morrissey (44:03.905)
Yeah.

T-roy (44:21.312)
kind of, you know, trust for many, many, many years. And now we've been subject to these kind of platform changes that have steadily eroded at that. And I just wonder where, like, is the next election and is our next reality entirely performative? Do new media brands like Fax, Inc. or Trust, Inc. or, you know, the ones that are already scaled, like a Times or Journal or whatever, become

Brian Morrissey (44:31.254)
Hmm.

T-roy (44:49.524)
bigger and more important to us. Like where does it land next is kind of what I've been thinking about.

Brian Morrissey (44:55.904)
Yeah, and I think you've made a good point. This is a pendulum country and the pendulum will swing back. I think, when they talk about trust, like I was at, I left that breakfast and then I hustled over to moderate a panel at these news fronts, which is trying to get advertisers to spend money on it with news publishers. you know, trust gets, you you can do a drinking game based on like how many times trust gets thrown around. And meanwhile,

T-roy (45:24.256)
world.

Brian Morrissey (45:25.26)
you've got these AI engines which are notorious for literally making shit up. Forget about actual bias or any of these sort qualitative things. They just make things up all the time. We all experience that. But the real trust issue falls to these publishers. And I think this is part of what I was talking about, the performative internet.

T-roy (45:26.792)
It's just Sibley's favorite word at times.

Brian Morrissey (45:51.862)
conspiracies are really good narratives, right? And so everyone, think there's, conspiracies were always fun. I always found them fun. But now it's become baked into the media ecosystem. And so I think that is like part of people thinking that there's a hidden hand behind everything when it's usually just, know, incompetence and just regular human frailties. And it's just ironic to me that the trust falls on, you know,

institutional news publishers, but people trust Sam Altman created AI. Like that seems very strange to me.

T-roy (46:32.616)
No, but I don't think. Yeah, I don't think it's that that it's that like it's just like extend out the Trump stuff. It's like the Epstein files are, you not an issue. Forget about it. We're moving on. Or, you know, any fact that's inconvenient is discarded. Anyone that works with your narrative is and then people believe it or they don't believe it. They don't care that it's.

Alex (46:58.303)
I mean, think if you look at, think part of the issue is like, we're kind of, it's surprisingly, even though we have access to so much media, like we're drowning in media that is making us feel that what he's saying is working. statistics show that it's probably not working and that a lot of people don't believe it anymore. Statistics show that a lot of these like,

you know, kind of conspiracy theories that hit the mainstream actually lose steam once they hit the mainstream, right? Like you kind of need to be the underdog and it needs to be. So this stuff all ebbs and flows. I'm really interested.

T-roy (47:38.548)
It does, Alex, but I would encourage you to think about it differently, and it would just be that there used to be this tension between the administration and the media, right, where there was a check process. That check doesn't exist anymore, because one just completely disregards, one just makes up its own narratives and disregards the checkpoint of the other.

Alex (47:57.344)
that's yeah, that's happened. Yes. But you know, it feels so

T-roy (47:59.936)
Right? Anyway, please.

Brian Morrissey (48:01.25)
And I would actually argue that that is a playbook that the technology industry overall is using. they good luck, good luck finding Mark Zuckerberg giving an interview to quote unquote, institutional mainstream media, whatever you want to call it. He's on every other podcast. He'll go on like TBPN friendly outlet, you know, whether they're just friendly for tech or because it's in their interests, you know, I, it's, I admire it, whatever. Um, and, uh,

T-roy (48:07.562)
Mm-hmm.

Brian Morrissey (48:31.19)
They've got like 300, you know, viewers of it. And they're like just, you know, there, was just this Josh Kushner, you know, who's never been like really like out there. They just had this massive profile that dropped in like another friendly outlet colossus. They're creating their own media ecosystem of safe spaces that they go that ha that have the trappings of, of journalism, of capital J journalism. It looks like it.

Alex (48:33.077)
But is it... Do you have any...

Brian Morrissey (49:01.48)
It tastes like it, but it's qualitatively different. Now, whether that works in the marketplace, I guess we'll find out.

Alex (49:05.653)
But isn't it?

Alex (49:09.215)
I mean, I think the irony of it is that like right now, you know, I think we have these two kind of massive bodies of waters that are hitting each other, which is one we still have.

population, including ourselves, whether we want it or not, still has trust in media or enough trust in media to talk about the distrust of media, right, or the changes in it. And then you have people that have figured out that they can hack these norms and create their own media channels because people still look at, like, you know, the irony is like, Rogan says stuff saying, don't trust the media while he's the media, right? Like he's bigger than CNN, right? And I think at some point, like,

My wonder is that are people going to get a little bit more immune to these kind of norm breaking things, right? Because it does feel a little bit like these hacks work on people who are still living in a world where media means something, where you talk about doing your own research, but your own research is listening to the most popular podcast in the world. And that over time...

Like we shift and we shift away with consumer media. And that's the thing that we're having a really hard time trying to grok is like, what does the future media consumer look like? The person that's never born in the time where like, know, news used to mean something. You used to turn on CNN and stuff used to mean something. Well, you you used to go to the train station and look at the bulletin board. If somebody had, you know, printed something and put it on there, that probably meant it was true, but you would never believe something, you know,

glued to the wall of a train station today. You know what I mean? Like, I think we're, everybody's becoming more hardened.

T-roy (50:50.75)
Well, those are great points, Alex. The thing that made me think is this, is that in a society of deep, deep, deep polarization, either one side is, you know, reading the world differently or they're misrepresenting the facts, or they have a completely different kind of moral compass. And I think that

Brian Morrissey (51:15.841)
Yeah.

Alex (51:15.977)
Yeah. Yeah.

T-roy (51:19.24)
When you add that, this deep polarization to media fragmentation and then add on that the idea that truth is fungible, which is really what's happening, you get even more polarization, in my opinion. There's nothing to bring them together.

Brian Morrissey (51:32.258)
Yeah, and I think that also, like some of this can be overplayed, right? Like, like, Stagwell just, they own the Harris Poll and they, they did a survey that just came out today. And, you know, the headline is this 85 % of young people get their news from social media. Okay. Well, guess what? The least trusted sources of news are social media influencers and social media stories. So, you know, the ones that are,

viewed as the most biased are social media influencers. I mean, they're over national politicians. Where people trust the most are friends and family. Local TV does really well and local newspapers and websites. So, yeah.

Alex (52:05.867)
Yes.

T-roy (52:05.91)
Mm-hmm.

Alex (52:14.995)
Right? And also, and also social media often means a clipping from an existing media source or somebody that you know, like I have people I know personally who share stuff on Instagram about the news that they watch and that's how I receive news. But it's essentially like I'm getting it from a friend, you know, so there's also that.

Brian Morrissey (52:34.112)
Yeah. And I think what is, what I think is actually maybe hopeful is where interests align is, you you look at what open AI is doing with, with apps in chat GPT. And I, I was doing something in there and they just had a little teeny pop up that said, why do you want to do it in Figma? You know, with one of the apps they have, I think that they will clearly find is that they're going to be publisher. Why would there not be a publisher app store in there?

Like where I would want, like, mean, you talked about, you know, verifying it with your credentials. I would want them to be drawing from publisher apps. I don't think I'm, I'm, I'm alone in that. And maybe, maybe this world that you're talking about, Alex comes, comes to be.

T-roy (53:21.056)
So a full app-like content integration into the chatbot would be great.

Brian Morrissey (53:26.242)
So Sam Almond, if you're listening.

Alex (53:26.495)
Yeah, but I think this is why the prompting, think, going back to my search when I'm looking for a store, the prompting...

I was saying it, here's the sources that I wanted you to pay attention to. Don't pay as much attention to these sources because I don't trust them. You know, like it's impossible to do searches like this in Google. And, and, and I do feel like it's not black or white, you know, like I think oddly enough in this kind of generative world, it might be easier to pull back the veil of some of the bullshit that the natural structure of the internet has created, which was you go to Google.

You end up wherever whoever had the best SEO and you read the thing and then that's the thing you do. Right. And I don't think that's particularly healthy. I think it's way healthier going to a computer and say, hey, computer, here's the nuance of what I want to get. And then might actually source more truth than second to that. think that if everything becomes fudgeable, I don't think the issue is going to be with a bunch of fake content. It's going to be the fact that nobody trusts the content anymore. Nobody trusts the content anymore. Nobody sees.

a handsome dude on TikTok and thinks that guy isn't using filters. Right? So what does that create? It actually creates a low trust society, but at the very least one that doesn't like just believe everything they see online. And I think that's going to be like the massive change. so if you can differentiate yourself by having an audience that trusts you and then trust what you create and maintain in that trust.

I think that's going to be hugely valuable because if anything, think the flooding of like fake content is just going to make us not believe anything we see, which is actually healthier than anything. But right now, we still live in a world where if I go on Facebook, there are people that I know who will like a picture of shrimp Jesus or a baby in India that's carving

Brian Morrissey (55:24.898)
Facebook's kind of crazy now, right?

Alex (55:30.087)
a fucking Jesus statue with using a tiny little baby chainsaw, right? And then, you know, like a boomer, a boomer saying, this is so beautiful, kids used to be so talented. I'm like, this is fake. But like, none of these people will be allowed. Yeah. It's just like parents of friends. Parents of friends. I'm just going put it out. But that doesn't.

Brian Morrissey (55:34.22)
Did he?

T-roy (55:34.88)
That's a good idea.

T-roy (55:42.656)
Is that in your network? Who was it?

Brian Morrissey (55:47.298)
You're very anti-boomer. All right, is A.B. us?

T-roy (55:52.033)
AB is getting on right now. you want to as a break? AB has a theory that rich people want to own media. he wants it. I kind of got annoyed with him in the car because I said, of course, AB. Yeah, I did.

Brian Morrissey (56:00.822)
This is new. Did you get annoyed?

Alex (56:00.991)
Yeah let's bring him on, Bella as we-

I'm gonna while we wait for a B. I'm gonna put fat Troy rapping here he is

Brian Morrissey (56:06.816)
Did you drive?

Brian Morrissey (56:13.314)
Okay.

Alex (56:20.265)
Hahaha!

Alex (56:25.611)
Yeah, no, this is incredible. It's incredible.

T-roy (56:27.456)
That's pretty good. You should go. It's the feature is going to be in the cinema soon.

Brian Morrissey (56:32.126)
Okay, I'm gonna try to resist the slop as much as I

Alex (56:32.788)
It's incredible.

Alex (56:39.083)
I'm just gonna keep making some

Brian Morrissey (56:41.186)
That's me.

T-roy (56:45.44)
I don't know, I thought it was kind of I'm really... AB, where are you?

Alex (56:47.539)
It was amazing, it's really amazing.

Brian Morrissey (56:48.258)
No, it was great. Where is AB?

T-roy (56:57.341)
One minute. Brian, how you doing?

Brian Morrissey (56:59.97)
doing well.

T-roy (57:01.844)
Are you getting, how long?

Brian Morrissey (57:03.17)
Had a good breakfast.

T-roy (57:06.506)
Hurry up. Hey, do any of you guys have a good product off the top of your head?

Brian Morrissey (57:12.578)
I the only one I have is that iron that got produced. Or do I just not go to enough fancy restaurants that that's common?

T-roy (57:19.358)
Which one?

Brian Morrissey (57:20.608)
I went to Chateau Royale and it's, I think it's a new place. It's on Thompson Street. And it's really nice. It's very nicely designed. It was very weird because...

T-roy (57:26.592)
huh.

T-roy (57:31.71)
Don't do the good product now, just tell me what the product is.

Brian Morrissey (57:35.442)
they produce an iron and they start to iron the tablecloths when they're turning the tables. It has the smell of like, you know, and there's steam and it's unusual. And I've never seen that before.

T-roy (57:45.696)
fresh linen.

T-roy (57:49.544)
yeah, you should do that. Why don't you do the build up? That's a nice one.

You want to do it right now and we can cut it and put it at the end? Okay, go.

Brian Morrissey (57:57.58)
Sure. Okay. So my good product is I went to Chateau Royale. I think it's a new restaurant in the village on Thompson Street. yeah, nice French restaurant. The server spoke with a very heavy French accent. It was way heavier than I experienced in France. I know, I'm 90 % sure it was not. She was like, bonjour. I was like, really? I was like, you everyone in Paris was like, hey.

Alex (58:14.891)
Are you sure it was authentic? I think people play it up.

T-roy (58:24.992)
It doesn't matter as long as it felt right.

Brian Morrissey (58:27.234)
But the interesting part was when the table next to us left, they were turning it over and they put a new tablecloth on it. And then all of a sudden they produced an iron and were like ironing it with the smell of like a linen being ironed and the steam. And I had never seen that before in a restaurant. It's a very simple thing that is a real differentiator. So I think more, I think everyone has to find their iron.

T-roy (58:53.684)
Did you throw them your shirt and said, would you mind?

Brian Morrissey (58:56.482)
No, I didn't. But we stayed around because the next table then left and I was like, kind of want to experience this again. So ironing during dinner.

T-roy (59:04.682)
That's good. Yeah. You know, I'm really looking forward to going to London next week and I'm going to that restaurant, Jim Carna, Jim Canna. Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.

Brian Morrissey (59:16.835)
yeah.

You're gonna go to the basement? Don't they have a basement area?

T-roy (59:23.36)
think so, yeah.

Brian Morrissey (59:24.514)
Is your hair different?

Alex (59:24.619)
Oh AB, AB is here.

AB (59:25.993)
Okay, it works. No, it's like not gelled perfectly.

T-roy (59:30.654)
No, he's doing Young Steve Bannon.

Brian Morrissey (59:33.404)
Yeah, it does have a little...

Alex (59:33.684)
You

AB (59:35.966)
It is funny, Steve Vann has started his career at Goldman Sachs. is a random fact.

Alex (59:41.131)
everything makes sense now.

Brian Morrissey (59:43.36)
Yeah. So, AB, I heard that you made a startling discovery, which is that rich people like to buy media properties.

AB (59:57.099)
That's what Troy said, he said it wasn't an original idea.

Brian Morrissey (59:59.682)
Do tell me how you came upon this.

T-roy (01:00:02.719)
I did, yeah, but good enough for a podcast.

AB (01:00:04.938)
I mean, it's not, I think that it's not like a discovery. was more, everyone keeps asking who's going to, who's like the next sky dance Paramount who's going to keep buying media companies and a lot of the natural sort of incumbents that are publicly traded or even some of the family owned media companies like Hurston, Conde Nast. I think they've moved away from active &A. And so the point I was making is that if you look to some of these tech

founders who've accumulated a lot of capital and a lot of value could be some of the more active people buying that because they're the best position because their main companies make a lot of money and so the toys that they have are part of the ecosystem the content platforms they have They want to probably add to them. So that was the point I was making

Alex (01:00:51.755)
I think that's actually a really good point. I think, I mean, we've seen it with sports team, but I do know folks here that have made an incredible amount of money and

actually wish that they were running something as fun as a media company. Cause at some point, right? Like your SaaS product and whatever, isn't that fun as running a media company and hanging out with like Charlize and whatever, you know, like that's great. I mean, there's probably a hint of Apple doing that, right? Like, because, you know, it doesn't really make that much sense, right? But man, they want to hang out with Bruce Brad Pitt at a DF one track. So, and then some of these assets are pretty cheap.

Brian Morrissey (01:01:08.034)
yes, it's nothing but...

No, it's not fun at all.

AB (01:01:26.326)
you

Brian Morrissey (01:01:30.343)
What's y'all saying the best way to have a small fortune is to start with a big fortune and buy a media company?

Alex (01:01:37.323)
Yeah, or maybe it's like boats though, your happiest moment is when...

AB (01:01:37.738)
But I.

Brian Morrissey (01:01:38.998)
Something like that.

T-roy (01:01:39.52)
But you want to break it down a little further for us, AB, because you're an analytical person.

AB (01:01:46.751)
Sure, mean, you just give a couple examples, right? So, and these are gonna be, they're obvious ones, but it's like most of these tech folks have some sort of angle of people consuming content on their platform or adjacent, right? So the simple ones, Zuckerberg with Instagram, Bezos with Prime Video and Twitch, the Google guys with YouTube, Jeff Bezos, as you pointed out, Brian with the Washington Post. Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (01:02:13.366)
You forgot to add Washington Post in the text message, Not a good sign for the post.

AB (01:02:16.245)
Yeah. so, it's not, it's not a good or bad. So I just, it's a, it's a, it's a, that's kind of an example of attack on acquisition. That's not core to what Amazon is doing. They tried to have the technology platform, the CMS platform that didn't really scale. Um, but I think more and more, and obviously Paramount is like, if they have a way to monetize the consumer at a much more significant level, I don't see Instagram buying necessarily content.

You can see them in the future going after sports rights because you can feel this in the feed of Instagram is there's more and more video. There's a lot of suggested people to follow and they're really pushing video because it makes more money. so that, cause this all goes back to everyone keeps asking me who's going to be buying the next set of these up and coming fast growth media companies. And I think we have to look to the tech platforms in their, whatever you want to call them.

their appendage media company or appendage audience as sort of the route to finding who's going to be doing the next set of deals.

Brian Morrissey (01:03:23.052)
Give me like three up and coming media companies that are gonna be very valuable in three to five years in this environment.

AB (01:03:30.66)
What do you mean? Like specifics?

Brian Morrissey (01:03:34.988)
Yeah, like literally companies. I'm interested.

AB (01:03:37.94)
That's the secret sauce. Why don't we talk it at a high level? And you're doing this like unprompted.

Brian Morrissey (01:03:39.584)
Yes.

T-roy (01:03:42.049)
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, AB, AB, I wanna just get on your case for a minute. No, I really got on his case in the car, you guys, because here's the thing. So for AB starting his own beautiful company, and you know, for AB, we are just media to advertise on, guys, just to be clear. Like, we're a vehicle for AB to get more clients, and credibility. Yeah, and.

Brian Morrissey (01:03:43.094)
High level, that means you're not gonna answer. Isn't this how you talk your book? Isn't that?

Brian Morrissey (01:04:07.426)
I just want to cut.

Alex (01:04:07.915)
I love it, yeah.

T-roy (01:04:09.896)
Yeah, it's branded content except there's no payment. And it used to be branded content when there was content contributions. And so if you're gonna do content AB, it's gotta be at a very high level or we're gonna start charging you to be on here.

Brian Morrissey (01:04:12.834)
Cheers.

T-roy (01:04:26.376)
So give us some examples, AP. Hit us.

AB (01:04:26.612)
Let's talk about, so I'll give you a better way of answering this question. So I believe you'll see the larger media companies going after YouTube channels en masse. Like they'll either figure out how to turn them on themselves, like real channels not, we've talked about this before, the shoulder content. We've talked about, and if you want specificity, it's like the golf YouTube channels and what's happening there is really interesting. And so you could see someone like an ESPN wanting to go get that audience and.

T-roy (01:04:56.096)
Good point. It kind of happened yesterday with Spotify and Netflix and their podcast broadcast on Netflix.

AB (01:04:56.104)
basically monetize them in a different way or like a thought.

Brian Morrissey (01:05:03.49)
Yeah.

AB (01:05:03.592)
Yeah. what else? think that I, I know that we're negative on some of these smaller, magazine companies, but I do think it's a valuable way, depending on what media company or what enterprise you are to basically get, advertising in the hands of consumers that are already adjacent to your events and things like that. So that's not big and a, but I can see that happening. And then this, like the easy one is the newsletter.

It doesn't need to be a sub stack. could be a beehive. It could be someone that just has built up a large list that's doing it themselves. But I think more and more media, cause think about these headwinds with organic traffic. They're like very sizable. And if you have all this advertising demand and you're like, my goodness, our traffic dropped again, 5 % this month. It's the simplest way because the frequency behind the newsletters allows you to have a lot of a sellable inventory.

Brian Morrissey (01:05:43.414)
Hmm.

AB (01:05:57.831)
It's the easiest way to basically attach it and you probably are gonna get synergies because your sales team, if you're a bigger media company, can sell that and has already sold that at a higher CPM.

T-roy (01:06:07.648)
I agree with you, you know, I have a friend who has a very large sub stack and is currently being pursued by a tier one investment bank and a tier one kind of media focused private equity company. And I think that those are a good place to look for signal as to what, you know, how companies will follow with their corporate efforts.

Brian Morrissey (01:06:31.902)
Okay, great. Should we get to good product? Then we're gonna add that. Well, I already did it, so that was just for Vanya. See? Professional. Anything we didn't cover?

T-roy (01:06:36.714)
Let's do it. You got it this week, You're done.

T-roy (01:06:47.686)
On your list, Alex had some late entries in here. I'm sure they were good.

Alex (01:06:52.139)
Hmm.

What did I write?

T-roy (01:06:55.722)
Has-hasen?

Brian Morrissey (01:06:56.634)
one thing is that I think that actually, this actually fits in with the post-truth internet because I had no idea what Alex was talking about when he mentioned Hassan Piker and some dog. I didn't even know, I vaguely knew who Hassan Piker was. He's like a sort of resistance Joe Rogan kind of character.

Alex (01:06:58.664)
Alright.

Alex (01:07:09.515)
Hassan Pike around.

T-roy (01:07:18.164)
He's a liberal influencer. Yeah.

Alex (01:07:21.405)
Yeah, left-wing but also controversial kind of like...

Brian Morrissey (01:07:23.774)
So there was a controversy about him putting a shock collar on his dog. And I was like, okay, this sounds like a typical controversy. But then there was a counter controversy about it not being true.

AB (01:07:25.683)
Uh-uh.

Alex (01:07:38.889)
Yeah, well, I mean, think the thing that happened is like...

Brian Morrissey (01:07:40.963)
This is exactly it, I'm just like, yeah, I don't need this. I don't need it. I don't need it.

T-roy (01:07:42.238)
What do you want to believe, Brian? What do you want to believe?

Alex (01:07:46.188)
Well, I this is the thing, right? And the thing that's coming up now, which I thought was kind of... So his dog's always in the shot. There's a shot of the dog leaving his... Because he's like just streaming. He's an ex-gaming streamer, potentially, a Twitch streamer. But the dog leaves and then you see him pick something up and press it and you hear the dog yelp in the corner and come straight back down to sit down. Which is like, all right, he did it.

Brian Morrissey (01:08:00.13)
He's a twitch guy,

Alex (01:08:14.891)
He did it or not. He denied it. He denied that he had a shark collar. Then he says, yes, I have a shark collar, but it's only set to vibrate. You know, it kind of like it kind of but the thing that I thought like why it ties it.

AB (01:08:17.362)
Okay.

T-roy (01:08:26.048)
I'm gonna do a thorough video of my wife putting a shock collar on.

Alex (01:08:29.503)
But the thing where it ties well to this conversation we had about authenticity and also it ties back to AB's, I think, you know, people want to buy media companies so that they can control the narrative. They want to have their audiences. They want to attach themselves to power and all of these things. But there is a pretty massive kind of movement of of online sleuths. A lot of it happens on Reddit where people

immediately went in and started like, this is the model number we saw, I'm on frame 72. And they're just, they completely, and they create their own news cycle by doing all this basically detective work in the background, right? And people are doing incredible detective work, trying to see like, on things that are actually really useless as a waste of everybody's fucking time. But like they take a

two photos from the Kardashians and notice what's being retouched because in that one you see her coming out of a taxi and she didn't have that scar but here she has it or you know like looking at the image kind of like compression and figuring out which type of camera and I wasn't taking on an iPhone and stuff like that so there's a

T-roy (01:09:39.636)
mean, that's a fun hobby, Alex, but at that point it's too late, right?

Alex (01:09:43.029)
But it is a fun hobby, is also, like the stuff that happens with Hassan like actually shows that these things, these kind of like authenticity seekers are actually like pretty powerful, right? They kind of ruined his week. And so as we're seeing this, as we're seeing kind of the fear of the death of authenticity, there's always kind of like a counter force that emerges.

AB (01:09:52.336)
Thanks.

Alex (01:10:10.789)
And this is one of them. I think like, now the problem in this stuff was relegated to sub sub sub forms of sub sub sub cultures, right? But what AI allows you to do is to surface these things. Hey, go do some deep research. What's going on there? If I just saw CNN, or if I just read the stuff that Brian read, I wouldn't have all the context about the dog thing. Right. And I only wanted it because I was going to talk about this on this podcast, but

AB (01:10:33.425)
Okay. Okay.

Brian Morrissey (01:10:36.842)
I read Taylor Lorenz about it.

Alex (01:10:39.061)
But Taylor, fine, right? But you read Taylor Lorenz because you like Taylor Lorenz's takes on stuff. So, I don't know. think the tools, as always, there has been kind of a balance of the tools of deception versus the tools of like, kind of like truth seeking and things are still in balance, more or less. And I think, and part of that is because of the human energy that gets put behind trying to find truth in all the lies.

Brian Morrissey (01:10:46.089)
get enough tail of the runs.

Brian Morrissey (01:11:09.602)
All right, on that note, let's leave it there.

T-roy (01:11:14.443)
All right, thanks guys.

