Brian Morrissey (00:01.239)
Uh-uh.

Troy (00:02.604)
Yes.

Brian Morrissey (00:06.329)
All right, so you're in Switzerland and you're on another vacation back to back.

the leisure class.

Troy (00:13.964)
in Switzerland. You know, what's that famous restaurant in Zurich called that I always forget the name of?

Brian Morrissey (00:22.262)
You're obsessed with it and you never remember the restaurant name.

Troy (00:25.044)
Yeah, I just ate there last night. Cronenhall. You ever eaten there?

Brian Morrissey (00:30.827)
I've never been to Zurich in my life. I mean, I've been in the airport, but I've never been out of the airport.

Troy (00:32.846)
Hmm.

Troy (00:38.158)
It's so great to eat just simple Swiss food, potatoes, veal, gravy, yum.

Brian Morrissey (00:50.093)
Yeah, I'm not a Swiss food fan. is one area Scott, Besson and I agree. I'm not into Swiss food, but maybe I'd have another right Swiss food too much fondue, which game. Yes, something is like is.

amplifying, like muffling and like typing, just an FYI.

Troy (01:13.07)
Is that me? So do you want me to change my mic setup?

Brian Morrissey (01:16.737)
I don't know, just keeps, it keeps, do you have AirPods in?

Troy (01:24.782)
I could change it maybe to my...

Brian Morrissey (01:29.111)
I don't know, it sounds like something keeps brushing against it. yeah, I can hear you fine. It's just the brushing against it part that is not ideal. All right, let's make this higher energy. Should we get started? All right, welcome to People vs. Algorithms. We're gonna detect patterns in media technology and culture.

Troy (01:35.161)
Can you hear me okay now?

Troy (01:48.866)
Let's go.

Brian Morrissey (01:56.089)
Alex is apparently missing. mean, that might've gotten lost in the WhatsApp, honestly, because I was expecting him to be here. But he's fresh off the slopes. Young. Thank you for taking a break from the, it's a pre-ski time right now, right?

Troy (02:18.882)
Yeah, we're going for fun, dude, and I...

Brian Morrissey (02:21.461)
that's fantastic. You're in Switzerland. Do you like I've never skied in Europe? I'm not a ski guy. Part of my man of the people schtick and I've never skied in Europe, but I've heard I've heard it's much superior to American mountains. And I might add, because this will be part of this episode about the best and worst of times.

Troy (02:22.764)
Yeah, we.

Brian Morrissey (02:45.557)
The American ski industry is in a bit of a pickle. It's been taken over by private equity. They're squeezing it for profits. The cost of a Lyft ticket is through the roof. It's cheaper. And I assume that's why you're in Switzerland. It's cheaper just to go to Switzerland.

Troy (03:03.751)
know, stuff isn't cheap here. Like food is really expensive. But Lyft tickets.

Brian Morrissey (03:08.121)
Yeah, it's like one of the most expensive places in the world.

Troy (03:11.968)
Lift tickets are much cheaper. the ski technology is superior. So they have these sort of elevator-like gondolas where you press a button to pick where you're going. And like those elevators where you select the floor and it directs you to the appropriate elevator, it's kind of like that.

Brian Morrissey (03:35.15)
they're programmatic.

Troy (03:36.414)
Yeah. And so they they they send you if you want to go to like station four on the main hill, you press four and you wait in that line and it's a few up there. And the chairlifts are really nice. And there's there's there's a lot more sort of casual intermediate terrain. So it's a pleasant place to ski and the eating on the hill is really good for lunch today we went to this hut that had you know, like ribs and sausage and

Veal shank and and big fat slices of bacon with a side of polenta and garganzola cheese on melted into it which was delicious. Yeah, it was delicious. And yeah, at that in a beer and I was ready to take to head back home to meet him. Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (04:17.337)
Sounds light, sounds light.

Brian Morrissey (04:27.577)
Okay, well, great. I was actually supposed to go to a mountain in Switzerland in a couple of weeks, but I'm not gonna go. No, I mean, I would like to. It's the one, the one, are you closer to Italy? I don't know, that's where.

Troy (04:36.278)
You should. You should. It's lovely.

Troy (04:45.942)
No, I'm closer. I mean, I'm an hour and a half from Zurich. It's probably the most there's one mountain before that's more conveniently located where you could just sip up in your ski clothes from Zurich on a train, basically get off the train at a lift and get and ski. This is an hour and half. And not bad at all.

Brian Morrissey (04:48.652)
Okay, so no.

Brian Morrissey (05:02.2)
Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (05:07.351)
I think my favorite places in Europe, because there's so many diversity, obviously, nationalities, and you can get so many places quickly where they're speaking totally different languages, is where cultures butt up against one another. So I'm very into recently the part of Italy that butts up against the sort of greater Germanic world, because it's an interesting mix. And there's some of that, like, in where France and Italy meet. I think Italy should basically...

Troy (05:28.685)
Mm-hmm.

Brian Morrissey (05:35.351)
When Italy's in the mix, I'm interested. All right, let's talk about best and worst of times. Before we do, I should mention, because we didn't talk post mixer, the mixer went great. Thank you for asking, Troy in London. And met a few PVA super fans at the event, and that was fun. I wanna give.

Troy (06:01.824)
What do you ever talk to those folks about what they like about our conversations?

Brian Morrissey (06:10.281)
well, it's the banter, it's the insights, you know? They're media people. They can't get enough of this. They're in too deep.

Troy (06:14.606)
Mm-hmm.

I did get any a text from a private equity guy who absolutely despises Alex. Yeah. And he said, I was wondering if that's why I listen. And I said, you know, I don't love Kara Swisher. And I tune into pivot.

Brian Morrissey (06:22.809)
Of course he does. course he does. Anyway, I wanna...

Brian Morrissey (06:30.528)
Yeah, everyone's.

Brian Morrissey (06:34.777)
Everyone's got a role to play. Simon Regan Edwards, I want to give him a particular shout out. He's been loyalist for a couple years now. He's a product director at Daily Mail. He came and was singing. He didn't give any hate to Alex or AB or you or me. I mean, that would be weird. Anyway, look, there's a movement afoot for a PVA mixer. I'm just going to say that. That's just what I'm hearing on the streets.

Troy (06:36.376)
Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (07:04.855)
Alright, so let's talk about the best and worst of time.

Troy (07:06.84)
Well, if you were to believe Joe Weisenthal, do you know who do you know Joe Joe from where does he work? The Atlantic Bloomberg, something like that. And yeah.

Brian Morrissey (07:15.961)
Bloomberg Media. Odd Lots, great podcast. He and Tracy Allouay are a great duo.

Troy (07:22.444)
He's got this new book out on the rise of oral culture and what it's doing to the way we communicate, think, what it's doing to politics, all of that, and how it mimics an ancient time of pre, you know, before writing and the kind of analytical processes that connected with, you know, solitary thinking and writing and, you know, an analytical approach to how we kind of understand the world.

And he suggests that we're moving into a period that's more like kind of the ancient oral culture, which I guess we're part of,

Brian Morrissey (07:59.545)
We are part of the ancient oral culture and I'm kind of dragged into this because I'm a writer by by instinct, by nature, maybe by DNA. I listened to Joe discuss this with Derek Thompson, who's back from eternity leave. He like sort of disappeared for a while. I was a little bit concerned. Just it turned out to be turned out just to be paternity leave. I feel like you got to announce that. And also as a podcaster, come on. You're in the slopes and you're taking an hour off to do a podcast. Derek, do a podcast.

I'm just saying. Anyway, he had a really good conversation with Joe on this orality thesis. These are all forks on the same thing, I feel like. And we've talked about it a lot. A lot of it is the casualization of media in the information space. If you look at how writing is being done, and I do this purposefully, I always felt when I was writing for magazines or even websites, and particularly in the news context,

You have to write in a particular format and it's kind of, it's not natural. And I personally like conversational writing styles better. think I'm best at it. That's why I always was attracted to blogging. And I think blogging was an important part of this shift that Joe was talking about because he was an early blogger and blogging was the sort of conversational, it was orality meets.

textuality, if you will. And I think we're seeing this everywhere. Short form video clips are obviously not just ascendant, but dominant, and arguably they're melting our brains. But I think everything is moving in this direction, and it will move more in this direction as AI becomes, I think audio is gonna be a major feature of however we interact with information in the AI era.

Troy (09:27.478)
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.

Troy (09:55.041)
So how do you think about what it does to how we communicate? They talk about communication being optimized for memorabil, you know, memory, memorability, rhythm and rhyme, repetition, epithets. So it travels in kind of packets. So you get this memeification of communication. And then stuff like abstract reasoning and nuance and analytical thinking, those are sort of products of writing, not speech. So

They like talking about how Trump has these Homeric epithets that apparently there's a dictionary of like, know, sleepy Joe and what was the what was the best one of Trump's? Not lying, Ted, Woody Jeb Bush, low energy Jeb, low energy Jeb, you know.

Brian Morrissey (10:38.402)
Lion Ted?

Low energy, low energy Jeb, yeah. He's pretty good at the nickname stuff. He didn't really get one for a Kamala. Crooked Hillary was a good one.

Troy (10:48.14)
So anyway, Trump doesn't read. He's, yeah.

Brian Morrissey (10:54.649)
Name is on the tin.

Troy (10:57.219)
right?

Brian Morrissey (11:00.161)
No, think Trump is is obviously a great example of orality. And a lot of this is is to me, it's forks on the same thing. Like compare that to the Chris Hayes book. Right. Our attention spans have been evaporated. And Chris's book basically made the argument that you need to sit in your chamber. And that's what writing is about is about sitting in your chamber and doing the work I just I just wrote for

about three hours now, it's painful. It stinks, it stinks. I don't know why when people say like, they're like, oh, well, you would do it. would do it even if you weren't, even if it wasn't your job, you would do it. I'm like, no, I, sitting down and writing for three hours and thinking about like how you want to communicate something is weirdly difficult now. I mean, I used to do this like all.

Troy (11:31.822)
yeah, what are you writing?

Troy (11:37.262)
What, no, but seriously, what are you working on?

Brian Morrissey (11:59.053)
day almost. What am I writing about? wrote a newsletter about what's working in the media business. That's why it was so hard.

Troy (12:05.58)
Okay.

Brian Morrissey (12:10.169)
You know what I mean? Writing is difficult and talking is less difficult. And I think part of, look, I'm not fighting it. I don't like hate the player, I hate the game. But the reality is a lot of oral communication is performative. I mean, that's why I always wanted people to write memos or to write things down in email.

rather than present. There's nothing worse than being presented to in a corporate context. I'm glad I left that behind because it's always hand waving. Salespeople and sales adjacent people love it because it's a performance. can use gestures and gesticulations. You can use charts and you can do all these things. And it can cover up for muddy thinking. And I am always going to be a word cell because words expose that. And once you put down your

thoughts on paper, all the flaws are pretty obvious. I assume that's why Jeff Bezos is into the memos. I love word maxing. But I'll do the orality. Why not? Sure.

Troy (13:11.842)
You're a word maxer.

Troy (13:20.494)
But Brian, the thread in our text chain.

Brian Morrissey (13:27.479)
I think Alex is speaking to whisper in that text chain, the way.

Troy (13:31.947)
Yeah. mean, Alex thinks that he was kind of right about everything always, and that we're just beginning to understand that. So maybe he was. Good for you, Alex. But the thought was that we're living through this kind of paradox where every chart says things are great, but somehow things don't feel great. And, you know, because the charts maybe are measuring the wrong things.

But they say that, you know, growth is good and unemployment is low. And, you know, the economy is strong. But somehow it and you really feel this when you come to Europe, you feel I mean, I've I do like I'm literally just going to wear Canadian flag t shirts all the time now. But it just feels

Brian Morrissey (14:23.819)
Are you going to be one of those guys with the flag on your backpack as you ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur-ur

Troy (14:26.766)
A pin at least.

Yeah, but like what seems to be missing is like things that make life feel good, like dignity and agency and community and, you know, the sense that effort connects to reward. So I don't know where these are strange times. It, you know, we're on the precipice of, you know, the most important technological revolution of ever. Right. And everything's supposed to be great, but it doesn't feel, it doesn't feel great, at least to me, Brian. So am I wrong?

Brian Morrissey (14:58.425)
Something told.

Brian Morrissey (15:02.463)
No, No,

Troy (15:03.498)
Is it me? Is it just me? Is it a life stage thing? What's going on? Explain it to me, Brian.

Brian Morrissey (15:31.363)
They're grinding a lot of data and they say that the definition of a recession to an economist is what, like two, three quarters of declining growth, but to a regular person, it's when they lose their job, right? And the economy is growing, employment is growing, the stock market is still doing well. Pam Bondi told us all that when she was asked why any of Epstein's

listed co-conspirators were not being investigated. We've got a Zempek. You have Zins. The AI maxers are promising on many podcasts that we're gonna have 20 % GDP growth. Infinite leisure time to see you on the slopes. And maybe along the way, maybe along the way we cure cancer. And at the same time, a lot of stuff just feels off.

Troy (16:06.776)
sins.

Brian Morrissey (16:30.572)
I think.

Troy (16:30.784)
and then God help you if you read the Andrew Yang memo that basically all, you know, white collar employment is coming to an

Brian Morrissey (16:40.289)
Okay, so let's get into that because Andrew Yang dropped this memo and I saw it on X, because I'm still on X. What I find on this orality point, and then I'm gonna talk about the specifics of the Yang thing, is I think that X is basically choosing one thing to be the main character.

long form text of the week. was something as big that appeared on, I think, everyone's feed, right? So the algorithm is going to make crown one thing, and this is kind of like a competition to see who gets to be the thing, what is this, like the main thing. And I think Andrew Yang was trying to be the main thing with that post. But he lost out to other Doom maxers.

And that's Ray Dalio. Ray Dalio is on a different level when it comes to doom maxing. This guy is an original doom maxer because Andrew Yang is like, you're not going to have a job. the clock is ticking. Forget it. You're going to be foraging in Prospect Park. But Ray Dalio is going up to geopolitical level and he's like, get into the nuclear shelter because conflict is coming.

Troy (17:33.28)
So like last week, last week we talked about that.

Troy (17:59.321)
Mm-hmm.

Brian Morrissey (17:59.383)
So you gotta know extremes are always gonna win in the information space. And so Andrew Yang just didn't go far enough. he did predict that there is a lot of dislocation coming. I get a little tired of these things. I don't know if you feel the same way. He basically said this automation wave will kick millions.

of white collar workers to the curb in the next 12 to 18 months. Very evocative. As one company starts to streamline, all their competitors will follow suit. It will become a competition because the stock market will reward you if you cut headcount and punish you if you don't. As one investor put it, quote, sell anything that consists of people sitting at a desk looking at a computer. And meanwhile, I'm saying that we all got to like sit in our chamber.

Andrew was taking the other side of that bet.

Troy (19:01.71)
Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (19:03.682)
Are you buying it?

Troy (19:06.158)
I'm concerned for sure. I, I, and this is maybe not, this is uncharacteristic of me to say, but I believe more strongly than ever that we need some kind of coordinated response to the AI threat. And I think that there's much work to be done by the collective, by government, by

international organizations to really start to think about how we prepare. And those things, you know, I mean, think if you take a historical lens on massive technological changes, you will see that they, know, whether it was, you know, as far back as the printing press, or, you know, the 20s and

to the 30s, know, where the, the, Gilded Age, you know, the industrial revolution, usually these great changes, shifts in technology were followed by great, you know, societal despair and that were resolved over long time periods, usually by some type of government intervention. And I think it's

Brian Morrissey (20:25.601)
and sometimes with revolutions and spasms of violence.

Troy (20:28.462)
Yeah, lots of violence. when I think about it, haven't spent enough time, but I think that we're going to have to look at everything from what are the new human rights against the rights of AI. I think we're going to have to look at tax policy really carefully. When you set up OpenClaw on a computer and spend $10,000 a month

having it become a replacement employee and you're buying tokens instead of feeding a human being, you've essentially hired someone and they're doing a job, but they're not a taxable entity. You know, they're effectively getting paid and they're earning revenue. And so I think we're going to have to look at new ways to think about tax either, you know, at the LLM level at the, at like, you know, or, you know, against

you know, the different ways of thinking about tax against big tech companies or the model owners or, you know, where there is significant human displacement on account of technology. mean, there's going to have to be new ways of creating revenue. We're going to have to look at the safety net and look at benefits and minimum income, which is Andrew's thing. And,

you know, what kinds of training programs we should be advocating for and or subsidizing. I really think that it's important that we have, I don't know if it's like how we do it as part of government, but a kind of future work task force that looks at like implications for retraining and education and subsidies and gets a kind of national dialogue going on what we're going to do when technology displaces a lot of work and

And has that discussion broadly enough to look at, you know, dignity and, and, and, and, and agency. think that we're going to have to look at like content provenance and look at like metadata systems for content and watermarking when we can't tell the difference between what's fake and what's real. I think we're going to have to have, you know, new kind of liability frameworks that says if a AI bot agent, whatever does crazy shit, who's accountable for it.

Troy (22:51.598)
and how do we track that? You know, I, you know, I, one would hope that we could, we could work with other countries on stuff like this. So there would be some type of international coordination, you know, that we're going to have to really look at shit like agentic processes and how there's a human in a loop and where there's a kill switch. So I think that like, there's a lot to do, man. And to just

kind of wave our hands and say everything's fine, which is kind of what I would probably usually do when it comes to, you know, government interference and, you know, tech policy and industry. think here it's, you know, the, the implications to this technology are so profound that we got to, we got to, you know, we got to get ready. I don't know. What do you think? Does that, does that sound crazy? Are you, that's a lot.

Brian Morrissey (23:41.483)
Yeah, that's a lot. I'll just be honest, that's a lot. How do I unpack this? I'll pick I'll pick I'll pick a few things. think, you know, I'm a narrative guy. Right. So outside of the specifics, I think it's really difficult because there's there's no leaders right now who can have these conversations. Right. Are the political class, the power broker class as a whole has been

Troy (23:49.046)
Well, pick from the list, man.

Brian Morrissey (24:10.147)
completely discredited by the Epstein files, whether they're in it or not, honestly, because it confirms a lot of the feelings.

Troy (24:17.484)
This can't be about whether the existing leaders are capable of doing.

Brian Morrissey (24:23.925)
Okay, well, I don't know who is going to lead this conversation. How much was AI discussed in the last presidential campaign? What was Kamala Harris's platform on all of these topics that you just unspoiled versus Donald Trump? I don't remember that being a discussion. So our political leaders don't want to have these discussions. Our business leaders are either self-interested or they're just corrupt.

Right. And I think that is the part of the, you talk about why are people, you know, so unhappy, I think they're really unhappy, down with how unprincipled people are in these leadership positions. It confirms exactly their suspicions. And so I think that is going to make it very difficult to address these real world issues because the political class in particular, they want to, they want to debate over

who's in the boys and the girls' room, who plays field hockey and whatnot to distract from these issues because they are very, they're complicated in that they come back to a lot of this inequality issue because I think a lot of the trepidation when it comes to AI, at the root of it is around displacement and about an oligarchic elite that is shoving us down this path that a lot of people don't want to go down.

I mean, I'm just saying Time Magazine is the arbiter of the current mood, right? But they have the AI objectionists on their cover, on their recent cover. And this is a lane that we're seeing in politics. This is where populism is going to go. Nobody likes data centers when they're built around them. Nobody likes the fact that their kids don't know what to study because they don't know what kind of career is going to be waiting for them.

So I understand why people are unhappy. Makes sense.

Troy (26:25.634)
What do you think we should do, though, Brian? get that people are seeing that the Epstein files have confirmed maybe the suspicions of, you know, common people that think that the game is rigged and that people, the elites are of low morals. like, what would you do? What do you think we should be doing?

Brian Morrissey (26:51.915)
Well, I mean, I think it starts with having a sort of political lustration. I think we need to like a wholesale change of leadership. Chuck Schumer was on my plane last night. He was doddering down the aisles saying like, hello to people. didn't I didn't give him kudos. Hello, Senator. I wanted to tell him like you you need to do a better job on the F.C. files and then you got to retire. We have to get rid of our oligarchic these these

this gerontocracy that we have politically, right? And I think it starts with leadership change. until there's a leadership change, I don't think that these issues are going to be addressed. I think unfortunately, there have been different people that have risen and the Democrats do not yet have a standard bearer. I don't know of anyone right now who is...

I look at as like a really good leader in this area. think Daria Omadi might be. I've been really intrigued by him. I've been listening to like four hours of podcasts with him. He does a lot of podcasting now too. And he has a really interesting nuanced view of where AI is going. And it strikes me as way saner than the stuff I hear from Elon Musk with his new defying apps.

and Sam Altman, who just presents as a completely untrustworthy character. I don't really want this guy making decisions for society. But Daria Omadi, I think, is actually an interesting leader.

Troy (28:28.846)
I agree with that, but like, you know, it's pretty urgent because I worry that when people of my children's generation read stuff like Andrew's stuff and much of the dialogue right now, that there's a risk that they just go into this kind of nihilistic spiral. It's like, what's the point, you know? But what's the point in putting, you know, energy in trying to kind of play the

the age old game of work hard and build a good life for yourself because it feels like that the connection between cause and effect is broken.

Brian Morrissey (29:08.291)
Well, then fix the incentives, right? Like, I mean, if young people in a society have opted out of the idea that they can live as well or better than their parents, then you're in trouble. And you don't want a lot of idle, particularly young men, like around, but you don't want that at all. Like, make the jobs. do not, any society with large numbers of unemployed young men is not a good situation. So I would say address that issue immediately.

But you look at the popularity of prediction markets, right? That is, I think just a regular person knows this is just unregulated gambling. I too bad Alex is not here with the unregulated hotel chain that they had at Airbnb. mean, people have seen these scams for long enough that they know exactly what is happening, okay? And you see that and you see where digital culture itself is going, particularly with

young men and I'm starting to feel old because I never wanted to know who clavicular was and I think I really didn't. I have no explanation. AB is here. AB, you're clavicular adjacent, I feel like.

Troy (30:13.326)
What's up with Kalevicular? Explain him to me.

Blake (30:24.601)
Yeah, what makes him popular? He's just like a mini Andrew Tate. Right? I don't don't think there's anything there. I think he's just like a memeified because it's interesting when they ask him like, topics that he should have an opinion on. He he can't answer things intelligently. So he's just like the. Yeah. Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (30:40.781)
That's a moat.

Troy (30:40.91)
He's a moron, guys, he's a moron, but is he actually popular or is he just a curiosity?

Brian Morrissey (30:47.327)
Let's just take a step back. Look, there are some people who are listening to this podcast who live a pastoral life and have not come into contact with clavicular. Clavicular is a looks maxer.

Troy (30:58.446)
flabicular. Well, I mean, it was in the New York Times. So what's a look, smackser?

Brian Morrissey (31:07.275)
A.B. your looks maxer. How would you describe looks maxing? It's basically just being a good looking guy.

Blake (31:10.393)
I mean, he's basically leaning into the nihilistic point is like he's everything is inward facing. So he talks about doing things to basically make him more attractive and prop up his ego. So skincare routines, taking certain pills. don't know. It's just like, it's like drawing out some of these. I think he talks about like breaking his, I don't know. It's just kind of wild. It's, it's there.

Brian Morrissey (31:29.943)
He punches himself in the face? that, or what does he do?

Troy (31:33.283)
That it.

Brian Morrissey (31:36.151)
You

Blake (31:37.911)
I do think it's like a flavor of the month and he'll be his like sticking power is not going to be that strong. So he's doing it.

Brian Morrissey (31:43.157)
No, he's hawk. He strikes me as hawk hawk to a 2.0. By the way, she's she's on she's apparently on that on only fans. That was the only place that that story could end. So meme coin only fans. So I don't know why people are upset. Try to do tell me that everything seems great.

Troy (32:00.527)
Brian Morrissey (32:06.199)
I'm wearing a smiley face t-shirt, so you can't see it.

Troy (32:06.53)
Are you ask?

Troy (32:10.648)
Well, where do we go from here?

Brian Morrissey (32:14.725)
Well, let's talk about, let's.

Troy (32:15.124)
You were on a rant, Brian. You were on a rant. you were it. Yeah. And it started where it always starts with you. And it's with European butter. And you always go back to the European butter as, you know, a sign of decline of America. We can't even make fucking butter.

Brian Morrissey (32:18.271)
I was. I have indignation.

Brian Morrissey (32:25.945)
You're a man.

I do, yeah.

Brian Morrissey (32:37.251)
We have tons of cows. Why does the butter taste terrible here? Look, I think about this all the time when I go through, like New York is now, and Mom Donnie is saying he's gonna raise real estate taxes by like 10 % if he doesn't get his rich person tax through, which also is rich person tax is gonna affect people who can do, I don't wanna say they live paycheck to paycheck in New York, but like literally, like New York is so frigging ridiculously expensive that.

You people can make really high salaries and when you're paying $70,000 a year for freaking kindergarten, like it doesn't go that far. And you look around and you're like, really? I don't get that much here. Like you spend three times like per person what is being spent in Florida and for what? Like it just doesn't, it doesn't add up. And that's depressing. It's depressing that, that, you know, that America is in this.

period where it seems like the only thing that we do is we financialize. We have a have a economy that's being propped up by all of the speculative AI funding and these data centers that are not like improving people's lives. And then. You have terrible infrastructure, terrible transportation, food that's making you sick, anyone who goes to Europe, you're like you're going to your organism is going to be mostly like cheese.

and like ribs by the end of the week and you're going to feel better. Like we got to we got to we got to improve a lot of stuff. feel I'm pro-America long term, but there's a lot there's a lot of work to be done as you as you said. But I think it is good to focus on on the young people because you know, that is like as you say, like that is the canary in the coal mine. Right.

And if they're feeling that their life is shittier and is the prospects of it are not good, then that's a bad sign for overall. I don't have the answers for it, unfortunately. I don't know if you do.

Troy (34:51.192)
think you've...

Brian Morrissey (34:53.259)
I wish I did.

Blake (34:55.319)
I do think so with mom Donnie's not to drift into an area I'm not supposed to talk about, but I think with mom Donnie's tax stuff and the California, like the wealth tax that they're trying to push. It does highlight this interesting thing where parts of the middle and like upper middle class have been, there's like this strong conservative base, right? Where they sort of align with the ultra wealthy of like, we want less taxes, less services.

But if you think about like in a state like California, where, and same thing in New York, when you look at the budget, so much of it goes to public education. And most of these upper middle-class people don't send their kids to public school. The trade-off starts to change where, cause mom, Donnie's like, he doesn't have the lever to push through the billionaire taxes. He's going to have, if he wants to do it himself, increase the property taxes. And so you start to see this thing where people in the upper middle class start to kind of pull back from.

being conservative and try to tax other places because they're not getting any value from any of these services anyway. Like they, when you hear that the New York City budget is 40 % going to schools.

Brian Morrissey (36:06.197)
It's twice what Tokyo's budget is.

Blake (36:09.357)
Yeah, but the whole idea of what it means to be conservative starts to change. And you start to say, yeah, we actually want other people to pay their fair share, right? Because like, if you are of a certain wealth, and you're just using, you're basically lending against your stock, your unearned stock value, and really paying less of a tax rate than high income earners. And

as a high income earner, you're not even using any of the services that you're having to pay 50 plus percent taxes to. It sort of changes the whole game. So do I like, I think the California thing will come up for a vote. I don't think it passes, but it's like the start of more taxing of the wealthy that I think more people will be open to because that's the only way to pay for this stuff.

Brian Morrissey (36:55.309)
Well, they get more like, mean, like Daniel Laurie seems like he's doing a very good job in San Francisco, everything I hear. And competent leadership will go a long ways across all of these areas, politics, economics, urban affairs. Like if Mamdani can prove that the government can be efficient and effective and produce outcomes versus spend money, then

That's amazing. And I think that there would be a ton of support for that. I don't see that happening necessarily, but maybe, maybe. Let's talk about the best and worst when it comes to media. I was thinking this, because it's a bit of a difficult time, I feel like, for the media business. I'm going out on a limb here. I think that there are some hopeful signs out there. And I've just taken to asking,

people what's working, right? And I went through and I thought for myself, I'm like, are the things right now that are working in the media business? Because we can talk all the time about what is not working, right? But what is working? A few areas that I see. And I'd like your opinions on these. One is I think audience first business models are working for elite brands. It's pretty clear, the New York Times, the Atlantic, Bloomberg Media, the Wall Street Journal.

will be fine through all of this compression. Something that I see is that with the page view declines, they're not matched by revenue declines. So I had a conversation with Adam Singolda yesterday, and he was saying like 30 to 40 % search traffic declines are real, but that they're saying that they're matched by like 10 to 15 % revenue drops. And that indicates that a lot of this was not all that valuable.

are seeing even gains. Like the Boston Globe is seeing its search traffic go up and its subscriptions from that traffic go up. And any publisher I've talked to has said that the traffic that they get, it's far smaller from ChatGBT and from Gemini, is far higher quality. So I think for models that can be business, for models that can be audience first, and it's hard and it's a small number, they're fine.

Brian Morrissey (39:22.315)
They're doing well. So that's one area. The other one, and this is maybe close to home for you, Troy. I don't know if you'll indulge, but being a front for non-media businesses that have far better economics. know, Hearst has become a B2B data services business with magazines and newspapers. I mean, it kind of reminds me of how the New York Times is a gaming company with a newsroom, because its non-news products are growing fastest in its bundle.

not the news product. But Hearst has, the majority of its profits are now coming from B2B companies like Fitch ratings and this aviation data service camp. I don't have much familiarity with that.

Troy (40:06.934)
I mean, this isn't a new story, Brian, this has been going on.

Brian Morrissey (40:10.795)
I understand that, like it is, this is, I hate that it's not a new story. I think it's worth dwelling on why this is successful, right? Like Outside is trying a version of this with a model where it's various media brands feed into the recurring revenue utilities it has, like it's trail, like a MapMy route apps for like hiking and running.

And look, think a lot of this is a lot of the media business will end up being fronts for other businesses. That's okay. It's a role.

Troy (40:53.388)
Yeah, it's not just media. I was reminded at the ski hill today that Warren Calmer is the guy that owns Black Diamond, which is a really wonderful high end, know, mountaineering and ski brand also is the primary supplier to the to ice for pepper spray and to the US government for weapons. So that's quite a mullet strategy. You know, I mean, everybody wants to have, you know,

nice things to say at cocktail parties, dude. Hearst is a remarkable company because it operates like a private entity that had a gusher of cash come in from cable assets, the share and ESPN and the partnership with Disney on A &E. Both of those, as you know, were very profitable for a long time. And the question was where to reinvest those profits.

Working in, know, investing in data businesses started a long time ago with motor, which was an offshoot of the automotive publishing B2B publishing essentially. And there's, you know, they got into healthcare data businesses into Fitch, which was a terrific business as a ratings company. And Fitch is offset all the declines in, in, you know, cable, cable profits. So, you know, there's still, I think great,

you know, strong feelings for the newspaper business. They just bought the Dallas paper. Well, they're in the newspaper business. It's where it started. They love the business. It's well managed, so it's profitable. Why not keep it? There's no incentive at Hearst to sort of, you know, get rid of assets to streamline the company against some kind of new thesis. You may as well keep them. It's part of the history of the company and people like the business and they're profitable.

Brian Morrissey (42:23.577)
Strong feelings. That's doing a lot of work.

Troy (42:49.526)
I think the magazine business has always been something cherished by the company and something they like a lot. So yeah, everybody does have a version of, you know, the assets that are a little more resilient that make cash and the ones that are a joy to own. Although the media ones have not been very joyful of late.

Brian Morrissey (43:07.929)
Okay, so if they were publicly traded, they would get pressure just to spin off these. Right, so the media assets are toxic. Is that it, A.B.?

Troy (43:11.564)
Yes, definitely. Yes.

Blake (43:21.209)
Yeah, I mean, they're just not growing. I mean, they have like to. Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (43:24.333)
They posted gains. They said posted gains. was an offhand mention. They weren't big gains.

Blake (43:30.071)
I think a better sort of commentary, as Troy mentioned, they've been, Hearst has been doing this for a while, like 10 plus years. And basically the media side, 20 years, the magazines, TV, newspapers, like they just haven't been growing and they reallocated all that capital to more B2B lines of business. I think what's unique about Hearst too is even though it's a family owned business, the board is made up of it's weighted to more outsiders versus insiders.

Troy (43:38.862)
20 years.

Blake (43:59.297)
So they're not necessarily focused on growing media. They're allocating capital to places where they think it's going to have the highest.

Brian Morrissey (44:07.817)
I am also encouraged the fact that people keep building media companies. has, it hasn't stopped all this doom and gloom. People are still doing it. Matt, I'm going to, I'm going to butcher Max's last name because I, that's my calling card. Max, Cheean, it was one of the puck founding team. He's basically doing, we're now in the part of the cycle where it's the puck for X, you know, it used to be the Buzzfeed for X.

Then it was the morning brew for X. There's a couple of vices for X. There's like a French vice out there, Brut. But now we're having a puck for X. And they're going after the food industry with caper. It's launching, I believe, this week. Are you involved in that, AB? You probably are. You're not involved, OK. This will be an interesting play. I mean, it is.

There's always, I don't know enough about the food industry to know if it caters that. always thought like restaurants are a terrible business. But they're gonna take that sort of power approach to food as a category. Joanna Stern, who has really done some great work, particularly with video at the Wall Street Journal. Before that, believe she was at Bloomberg. She's setting off on her own.

on YouTube, starting a YouTube channel, Beehive Newsletter, whatnot. Those kind of things are working. I think the expert creator, Lane, is still really good. And this is, to me, the Lenny Ratchitsky of X. Lenny Ratchitsky is for product people. CJ is for CFOs. I've been really enjoying, do you ever read Rachel Carton, Lincoln Bio? She does a great job.

Troy (46:01.635)
Mm-hmm.

Brian Morrissey (46:04.227)
for social media marketers. And social media has become really important, obviously. She used to do this at Bon App. So she has that sort of expertise in it. And I think she's building what Mashable should have been. She's got a newsletter. if you're in that business, you should be reading like Lincoln Bio for sure. So these are good businesses. They're not the same as the previous generation's businesses, but they're good businesses.

Troy (46:34.122)
And it should all come at no surprise that we live in a media saturated world that while much of the spectrum is dominated between dominated by, you know, people making media for people in, you know, kind of non commercial ways that there are, you know, no cost platforms that allow you to reach big audiences. And if you can successfully build loyalty around those and they are adjacent,

to commercial, anything that has commercial value that you can trap those dollars as advertising, right? Or if it makes sense, you can sell your content to people. I don't see why there's, I mean, I think that my apprehension as an investor would be like, I look at these things all the time. And when I see creator kind of YouTube based businesses looking for funding,

I wonder about the longevity and I wonder about their ability to stand up a commercial operation that allows them to scale effectively. And so I think they're great craft businesses. I think very few of them end up being the next generation big thing.

Brian Morrissey (47:53.301)
No, but well, I don't know if there is a next generation big thing. Maybe the next generation is a whole bunch of small things. That's my position is there isn't going to be maybe there'll be a couple, but like trying to build it is is probably a fool's errand. Because I always but

Troy (48:10.858)
It's just that when you're capital in that situation, like owning a percentage of a $5 million or $10 million media business is to me a difficult way to make money.

Brian Morrissey (48:20.919)
Yeah. Well, you guys are capital allocators. I mean, you're on the top of a mountain, right? I'm in the trenches, Troy. I'm doing mixers.

Troy (48:29.984)
I got a note about you this week, Brian.

Brian Morrissey (48:32.68)
no, don't tell me, I don't like negative feedback.

Troy (48:35.274)
No, it wasn't negative. was someone wanting you once again to join their death star.

Brian Morrissey (48:42.893)
Death Star, really? That'd be great. I haven't worked in an office in six years. Religiously, yes. It's a lifestyle choice. It's an identity.

Troy (48:47.264)
I didn't even share it because I know that you're so religiously independent that you and that, you know, for me to go pitch you on, you know, someone buying your email list and, know, you're not into it.

Brian Morrissey (48:57.709)
Yeah, you know what? didn't buy my email list. You're buying more than that. No, it's an identity. It's like native New Yorker. Like it just becomes an all encompassing identity. I actually did a commute this week. Yeah, I mean, there should be like a creator stock exchange. Why not? Isn't that what that guy?

Blake (49:05.185)
One minute. Yeah.

Troy (49:13.784)
Can I buy stock in you, Brian?

Troy (49:21.346)
That's a good idea. Yeah, I'd like to buy some stock in you, but I want to make sure that I get a percentage of the profits that come out. So we would have to, you know, manage the expense line and the salary.

Brian Morrissey (49:33.205)
yeah, yeah, no, I remember it like, we want to put a restriction on how much you, I'm like, jog on. AB, what were you saying?

Blake (49:41.401)
I was gonna say, some of these like B2B, either B2B newsletters or B2B adjacent, like CJ, for example, is starting to create tools for his audience who are CFOs. And so with this overlay of like AI vibe coding, I think it's easier for, because I think CJ might have a couple of people working at his newsletter. It's much easier for them to stand up different platforms to monetize that audience. So yes, he makes.

Brian Morrissey (50:02.968)
Yeah.

Blake (50:07.925)
X from advertising, but he started to figure out other ways to cultivate that audience, to make tools.

Brian Morrissey (50:12.567)
He makes like two mil from advertising. It's pretty good. I mean, for like a one person operation. He just runs ads. It's great. I I gotta run mixers and webinars and all kinds of things.

Blake (50:17.944)
Yeah.

Blake (50:21.657)
Yeah, I think it's, it's, yeah, it's more, but he's starting to make tool and for connecting a CFO to a new platform for managing corporate credit cards or whatever, if it's like a warm lead, that's super valuable. And so you're starting to see people like him and say having to hire a couple of engineers and take six months, he's turning things on much quicker. So his audience of 50,000 plus people that are all CFO, BPs of accounting type things.

Brian Morrissey (50:34.765)
Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (50:49.783)
Yeah. I mean, I just want to say it's like we're in this weird in-between period where there is a lot of leverage to be gained from the like vibe coding up this. And that's just because like we don't have a million pieces of software like everywhere. And so, yeah, if there is the distribution leverage that he can create a better, you know, tool that people will use, but I just feel like the market will be flooded with these

Blake (50:51.459)
What do think?

Brian Morrissey (51:18.723)
with these templates, with these tools, and so the price will inevitably go to near zero.

Blake (51:25.921)
And he's not charging, he's just providing another layer of information and then connecting advertisers with his audience in a more direct way.

Brian Morrissey (51:36.345)
Okay.

Blake (51:37.719)
My point is like, I agree that it's going to be hard to make these companies massive and make them actionable from an &A perspective, but they're figuring out new ways to derive revenue, right? Like basically take that intent and convert it to more direct purchasing behavior.

Brian Morrissey (51:49.038)
Got it.

Brian Morrissey (51:54.403)
Got it. One thing that is not a company, but that I will call out as a great media product, have you seen J-Mail? You guys seen this? It's...

Troy (52:04.886)
Well, I think J-Mail is an example of what Blake's saying because he's saying that suddenly media companies or companies that represent an audience like CJ, like CFOs, can now use technology in ways they couldn't before to create utilities that make their bundles more interesting. And J-Mail is just, he's like jokey media. It's funny.

Brian Morrissey (52:09.497)
it

Brian Morrissey (52:21.219)
Sure.

Yeah.

Well, I know, it's like to me, okay, so J-mail is, it started as basically a Gmail clone for you to interact with the Epstein files. Like it's basically recreates Jeffrey Epstein's Gmail account, JEEVacation or whatever, strange account name. There's a lot of strange stuff.

Troy (52:30.678)
What is J-Mail, bruh?

Brian Morrissey (52:50.649)
And you can search through it and it's a much better sort of interface. It's just an interface layer to the data. But then they've made it into like Jworld. And so they have an entire suite. They have a Facebook, they have a Wikipedia, JTube, which I was going through JTube and unfortunately there was some video where Jeffrey Epstein, I don't know, it was some kind of assistant, I guess, his who was talking about that they were

Troy (53:03.246)
They have J-Tube. J-Tube.

Brian Morrissey (53:19.833)
trying to help like sustainable journalism with a mixer that they were doing. So I was very, I didn't like that at all. Again, like I don't want people to see that because it's totally different.

Troy (53:29.12)
It's mostly black boxes running around Jeffrey's apartment.

Brian Morrissey (53:33.977)
Exactly. But fun, I don't know. I looked at it and I said, man, these are the kind of things that publishers should be spinning up. It has to get back to these kind of fun. There was a fun period where BuzzFeed was trying different things. I feel like that's all just ground to a halt as everyone's just in this endless triage mode. That's why I'm doing mixers, because there needs to be more fun again, trying new things.

Troy (53:48.631)
I mean...

Brian Morrissey (54:04.865)
Microsites? I don't know. Try.

Troy (54:08.142)
Right. Well, that would be Alex's line. I'm trying to think. I mean, I think that if you map the digital media industry from, you know, early delivery of, you know, banners on pages, that was always kind of a fecocke idea because it demanded that consumers pay attention to two things at once. One would argue that the entire kind of display industry was a total failure except for a sort of

brief moments of kind of performance success around retargeting that too felt toxic because you would buy something and then it would chase you around on the internet for the next two weeks. But like the performance thing is real, meaning, you know, the internet led to this, you know, kind of structure, economic structure where you can buy customers effectively. And if you're really good,

And you understand, you know, companies that are effective at the kind of modernization of late night television, which is how do you sell products on the internet? There's a vast world out there of people turning attention into real dollars. And I'm just super, I remain very interested in that because it seems to be an unstoppable trend. There will always be demand for customers.

And then what do you do with that? So for example, something I'm very interested in is how do you, how do you financialize that business? Meaning, can you, underwrite the acquisition of customers, I pay for customers and then have ways to make your money back over time from a, you know, like as by taking a percentage of the LTV of a customer. And so there's, there's great new kind of.

ideas, you know, and around media, particularly as it pertains to performance marketing. And they're like, that stuff makes the world go round. So it's, yeah, in every category, whether it's B2B, B2C, D2C, all of those, there's death taxes and leads to always count on.

Brian Morrissey (56:14.775)
Performance marketing.

Brian Morrissey (56:21.249)
Well, leads. Leads make the world go.

Brian Morrissey (56:27.043)
Yeah. That's why I go ahead.

Blake (56:28.663)
I think advertisers are now conditioned to buy everything on like a ROAS, right, from the platforms. And so that's why if you're trying to go up against Google and Facebook, you have to provide validity that you're delivering people, customers, and not just eyeballs.

Brian Morrissey (56:45.495)
Yeah, for sure.

Troy (56:46.37)
The only two successful ad platforms at scale on the internet.

Troy (56:53.326)
They're all about

Brian Morrissey (56:57.409)
Yeah, the shift to outcomes has happened and it's not going backwards. So you do not want to be selling impressions, I think, in the year of our Lord, 2026.

Troy (57:04.194)
No, my next business is financing outcomes. I'm going to underwrite out.

Brian Morrissey (57:10.677)
Okay, that sounds like what remember with Seth Goldstein, he was he was doing some kind of thing with leads he he linked up with Lou Raniere, the guy who started like the the mortgage securities market, and was trying to do that for attention slash leads. This was many years ago. It was super conceptual. Seth is a very super conceptual guy. Okay.

Troy (57:29.358)
It sounds too conceptual. How about I just pay for your customers? This is like accounts receivable factoring. I mean, this is very, very pragmatic.

Brian Morrissey (57:39.257)
That sounds like up A B's alley. A B, I've been bugging you about like what's working and you came up with an interesting example. Wasn't one that I'd heard of to be honest with you. In the world of YouTube, which is the new TV.

Blake (57:58.369)
Yeah, the synthetic, mean, AI content or technology driven content has been around for a while, right? So publishers, like when video advertising

Brian Morrissey (58:03.705)
my God, is this the rebranding that you're trying out? Okay.

Blake (58:10.007)
No, no, I'm just saying I'm saying it's not new because I think sometimes people talk about stuff as if it's like brand new. Yeah, but I mean, publishers have used like vignette videos to drive additional ad revenue on their sites, right? Because video ads are more valuable than display. But I think what's happening in in like more significant proliferation is AI generated content, both on live streaming and also on YouTube. So

Brian Morrissey (58:14.167)
It's an AI Slop account. It's an AI Slop account. That's what it is.

Blake (58:37.303)
The question is, what do the platforms do? Right now, consumers are not trusting this content at the same level as they do for human-generated content. The problem is, if a consumer doesn't trust the content, then they don't trust the advertisements that are adjacent to it. Right now, I think the platforms are going to say they're going to take action. At some point, the AI-generated content is going to get just as good as the normal content. don't think consumers are going to be able to tell a difference. It's just this...

general theme that we're going to see, think, more and more as the technology improves to increase how easy it is and how cheap it is to make video content, is you're just going to see more and more synthetic video on your feed. Right? So there's a couple.

Brian Morrissey (59:17.561)
Right, so this one, this is Bandar Apna Dost. It's an Indian YouTube channel that's racking up billions of views. Colin and Samir feature this. Colin and Samir, that's another great business, by the way. It's a YouTube about YouTube. Because it's such a massive, massive economy. It's basically an AI-generated monkey. That was my understanding of watching a little bit of it.

Blake (59:46.137)
Yeah, I mean, there's a couple like yes, you're referencing this this India or channel from Pakistan or India, but there's a company for sale right now that's based in North America that's 50 % EBITDA margins. That's doing well. They have like human narrators, but most of the content is synthetically generated. They do millions of views every month on YouTube. So there's definitely

Brian Morrissey (59:47.767)
having adventures.

Brian Morrissey (59:52.674)
aspects.

Brian Morrissey (01:00:08.953)
But then they create this stuff for like 60 bucks, right? Like a video. Like, I mean, it's, it's Arp. To me, it's like, it's like a tension Arp.

Blake (01:00:13.025)
Yeah, I mean nothing. Yeah, yeah, it's addictive. the and that's the problem with these feeds is like, they're not geared towards premium content, they're geared towards keeping you addicted, right? And so I think long term, as much as the platforms are saying, we're going to try to get rid of this, because we don't want to mess up the opportunity for natural creators is like, long term, I don't think they care. Because as long as it keeps you addicted to the platform, and you can trust it at the same level as

human generated content, doesn't matter. They just want you to be on Instagram or YouTube for hours a day, like that's goal. But I think the point of the call-in is...

Brian Morrissey (01:00:50.627)
But won't that create another lane, this craft lane? Like to me, the craft lane is far more interesting. Maybe it's just because like, I don't have the wherewithal or the.

Troy (01:00:54.658)
Hmm

Listen guys, come on. Let's look at this more broadly. you know, God bless God. It's so, I, I, I it. Well, no, no. It's just like the guy's never going to create a media brand. It's a short-term content arb. He'll, you know, feed off the, kind of, you know,

Brian Morrissey (01:01:01.561)
This is so uninspiring. Troy wants to financialize leads. AB is talking about this Pakistani synthetic monkey.

Troy (01:01:23.572)
algorithm arb on YouTube for a while and maybe make some money and it will go away. It's just

Brian Morrissey (01:01:31.949)
I think we're going to see more of that. think the disposability of brands, I almost think sometimes that it doesn't make sense to try to build a long-lasting brand because you are probably not going to do it. So just try to find a seam. Try to make it work. And then move on to the next thing. You see this all the time in software. I all these solo digital nomad hackers.

They create tons and tons of different apps. That guy who got bought with OpenClaw from OpenAI bought him. It was like one guy sold a billion dollar basically company. This was one of dozens of projects he did. So why wouldn't content be any different? Just try a bunch of different stuff.

Troy (01:02:20.782)
All right, that's very inspiring. I do, I have a couple for you guys. They're not, the Swiss ones I think I've done before. Roasties are great, everybody knows that. I was kind of moved by a couple pieces of real content this week, AB. No, there's, well I have a new favorite show, which is delightful, but I did watch two,

Brian Morrissey (01:02:22.649)
All right, should we do good product? Do we have a good product? Is it a Swiss flavored?

Brian Morrissey (01:02:33.143)
Yeah, we've done on diversity.

Brian Morrissey (01:02:41.57)
Was it Bandar?

Troy (01:02:49.996)
great documentaries on Netflix that are worth pointing out. And one is, have you seen the Queen of Chess? It was always thought that women couldn't beat men in chess. And there's this documentary that chronicles the life of this Hungarian grandmaster named Judith Polar. And it's a new documentary. essentially,

Her father had three girls. He read all the books about, you know, kind of the genius mind and decided he wanted to sort of homeschool and educate geniuses in his home. And he decided on chess and he taught his three daughters. They spent nine hours a day learning chess in Budapest. And they were all terrific, but Judith was

Brian Morrissey (01:03:41.143)
That's such an Eastern European thing to do.

Troy (01:03:46.635)
was the best. And she quickly, I think the youngest person ever to become a grandmaster and rose to be the greatest female chess player, you know, uncontested in the world, and then had a number of games against Gary Kasparov, and really had to modify her style to, to take him down. And ultimately, I think it was like the 14th game beat him.

And it's a really inspiring story. So I love that. I love that a lot. And then there was this other great one called Secret Mall Apartment on Netflix about these, I don't know, RISD adjacent art students living in Portland, Maine, that secretly built an apartment in a part of a new mall that was part of kind of gentrifying the

the town in a way that displaced a lot of the great old housing and they were kind of making a statement and they snuck in to the mall over a period of four years and painstakingly assembled an apartment that they lived in on and off for years and years and years until it was discovered and it's a great story. But the great show right now

And I didn't think I would like this, but I absolutely love it is a Knight of the Seven Kingdoms. Are you watching this? And I'm no like, I'm no like Game of Thrones Stan at all, but it started it's now in its fourth or fifth episode, it's character driven and it's a, it's like a six episode adaptation of Martin's Dunk and Egg and the character, this lovable idiot called Dunk. and,

Brian Morrissey (01:05:16.664)
No.

Troy (01:05:39.307)
and his squire egg, you know, kind of are lovable losers who will ultimately, you know, prevail. And it's set 90 years before Game of Thrones. The characters are amazing and it's a really great show. It really is terrific. So I recommend it highly.

Brian Morrissey (01:06:00.921)
By the way, on chess, did you know that chess.com is a great business? It's hundred million dollar plus in revenue business.

Troy (01:06:11.822)
There you go.

Brian Morrissey (01:06:11.998)
There's a lot of money to be made in a lot of different areas. I don't know, AB, are you on chess.com?

Troy (01:06:15.369)
Yeah.

Blake (01:06:21.379)
There's a lot of these websites like that are basic like prayer.com that provide like very utility services that make a lot of money. Dictionary.com.

Troy (01:06:21.706)
Sw-

Brian Morrissey (01:06:33.333)
yeah, like I did. I had no idea we had someone from one of the dictionary sites. There's really only two. There's a few. They turn a ton of page views still. They have a really good business. They have a massive like word of the day, email newsletters, like a lot of people sign up for this. It's just a word.

Troy (01:06:54.24)
I'm signed up for today's blessing.

Brian Morrissey (01:06:59.155)
You what?

Blake (01:06:59.395)
today's devotion. Troy, how do you do your content? Do you get when you're watching these shows on Netflix, is it because it's on the platform or do people tell you that they liked it and then you watch it?

Troy (01:07:01.08)
Today's blessing.

Troy (01:07:10.254)
Both, I think like everybody, it's like, yeah, the algorithm is useful, but can narrow you into one lane really quickly. The YouTube algorithm's really good at quickly surfacing a new interest. I think that the Netflix algorithm often finds documentaries and stuff that I'm interested in, although they come from friends and family. So yeah, both, everywhere.

Although I am experiencing some newsletter fatigue, I have to say. I'm my little newsletter doubt.

Brian Morrissey (01:07:47.447)
I think overall, newsletters have that fatigue factor, for sure.

Troy (01:07:55.501)
Yeah, like I'm stuck on ours guys. you know, lately you've noticed that I've been summarizing the main kind of topics that we discuss in the episode. And some of that I just kind of process off the transcript and then edit it and usually start with a little blurb, something that struck me like a little essay that sometimes Brian responds to, sometimes he doesn't. And, you know, I don't know what makes a useful companion to the podcast.

I don't always have like a kind of Tina Brown-esque essay in me to make it interesting.

Brian Morrissey (01:08:30.423)
Yeah. Well, why not just, think just the topics we discussed. I don't know. There's different like purposes for it. I mean, maybe if people have ideas, what do you find like most valuable? But I do think, you know, with this shift to orality, it has, look, it's hurt like engagement on the words. No doubt. I send thousands of words a week. I just noticed, you know, my open rates, of course, Troy are like well over 55%. But

Troy (01:08:58.189)
Mm-hmm.

Brian Morrissey (01:08:59.639)
You know, I've noticed just with what people, I hear a lot more about like the podcasts than I do. I think it just, think podcasts still have like a resonance that newsletters do not necessarily. I still think the written word is obviously really good, but I think it's a really efficient way, particularly to communicate like business information, but that could be a generational thing. I don't know.

Troy (01:09:30.798)
Well, I'm late for my fondue reservation.

Brian Morrissey (01:09:33.067)
Appraiski. Good. Europe is always, you know, they have a much better appraiski. The food is way better and none of these like rubbery nachos.

Troy (01:09:41.738)
It may be going to shit here, Brian, according to like, you know, the MAGA people, but I just want to

Brian Morrissey (01:09:49.793)
Yeah, totally. I'm with you. I'll be back in Europe in April. Not until April.

Troy (01:09:57.132)
And God, the Swiss are good at transportation. my God, the trams, the trains, the lifts, all that. Spectacular.

Brian Morrissey (01:10:03.929)
They're a little persnickety though as a people.

But that comes with it. I mean, you can't be all orderly without like going into being persnickety. So it's fine.

Troy (01:10:15.468)
Yeah. Anyway, I'm going to put on my Canadian t-shirt and go get some fondue.

Brian Morrissey (01:10:20.794)
All right, It's fun. Bye.

Blake (01:10:23.15)
See you later. Bye.

Troy (01:10:23.247)
See ya, bye.

