Brian Morrissey (00:00.024)
Step three is success. Step two is execution. That's where it all falls down.

Troy (00:00.79)
Thank you.

Alex (00:00.918)
Okay. Yes.

Troy (00:05.523)
Ahem!

Brian Morrissey (00:07.16)
It's okay, it's wabi-sabi. I have a friend who's a Japanese facialist and she gives omakasa facials and then it promises wabi-sabi skin. Wabi-sabi skin. I think it caters to Americans, Japan fetish.

Alex (00:07.982)
Troy doesn't do any of that stuff unless somebody does it for him. It's beneath him.

Troy (00:14.75)
Alex, I hate you. I hate you, Alex.

Troy (00:24.711)
that's that sounds dirty, dude.

Alex (00:28.257)
It sounds

Alex (00:34.55)
I don't know what an omokase facial, means like a chef's choice facial doesn't sound good to me.

Troy (00:41.654)
Is that like a chef's kiss?

Brian Morrissey (00:43.742)
No, she's good at what she does. She's got like celebrity clientele. I like artisans. That's where we're going. Artisans.

Troy (00:47.574)
But can we?

Troy (00:53.558)
That's true. It's a craft world.

Brian Morrissey (00:55.544)
Can you get closer to the mic? This is like a f-

Troy (00:58.53)
It's a theme.

Alex (00:59.032)
It's crazy. It's crazy. It's absolutely insane.

Brian Morrissey (01:01.144)
I'm gonna play Alex.

Troy (01:03.54)
It just gives me another reason to hate you, Troy.

Brian Morrissey (01:05.88)
Try.

Alex (01:09.698)
Well, did, Troy, we did cover some of the, what are we gonna call it? The hate gate? if a listener asked if Troy and Alex hate each other.

Troy (01:26.836)
And the answer? The answer? Yes.

Alex (01:26.926)
I said that you just hate what I stand for, but you love me. I think we love each other very much Troy. You're one of my closest friends. Even though your fucking mic etiquette is just like out of control man. It's just crazy.

Brian Morrissey (01:32.552)
Yeah, but she's dead.

Troy (01:40.01)
No, I'll actually love you.

Brian Morrissey (01:44.472)
It's horrible.

Troy (01:46.482)
But can we not include all this junk on the podcast? This is not what people come for. This is nonsense. Fania, this is nonsense. Don't keep this shit.

Brian Morrissey (01:50.392)
Subtlvania

Alex (01:55.884)
Nah, keep it all.

Brian Morrissey (01:56.12)
Hmm

Brian Morrissey (02:00.501)
All right, do you to get started?

Alex (02:04.76)
Well, that's the energy we want to come in with.

Troy (02:07.678)
Alright.

Brian Morrissey (02:08.085)
I don't know, Troy, do you want to say something, Troy? What is your opening statement?

Troy (02:13.314)
I'm feeling anxious actually that would be my opening sentiment. Huh? Well, you know the anxiety you get when you come back from a little vacation and you feel like you got to catch up on a bunch of stuff. And meanwhile, you make the mistake of reading too much media and realizing that the world is in a very troubled place. And that's how I feel.

Brian Morrissey (02:17.208)
like Chloe Maul. She's nervous.

Brian Morrissey (02:42.292)
Okay. On that note, welcome to People vs. Algorithms, show about detecting patterns in media, technology, culture. I'm Brian Morrissey, joined again by Troy Young. Troy, you're back from, where were you? Bandcamp?

Troy (02:49.932)
Yes.

Troy (02:58.839)
I was in Jamaica. Are you? How was the episode while I was gone? It sounds like it was kind of mediocre.

Brian Morrissey (03:00.844)
Jamaica.

Brian Morrissey (03:04.873)
I thought it was very good. I thought it was good.

Alex (03:06.318)
That was great. Probably one of our better episodes. We do. We do.

Troy (03:08.352)
But you and Alex have nothing to talk about.

Brian Morrissey (03:10.774)
Yes, we do. have plenty of talk. We have plenty to talk to.

Troy (03:12.128)
Huh? No, it's like an awkward first date, the two of you.

Brian Morrissey (03:16.685)
Not at all. You keep calling me awkward. I'm going to a party after this. It's going to be in my mind.

Alex (03:17.358)
Well, I mean, I think it's like, yeah, I think it did.

The vibe of the show is very different without your first character syndrome like butting in because it gives us a little bit more time.

Troy (03:29.442)
podcast with the two of you like the N word.

Brian Morrissey (03:30.912)
Was, there were fewer interruptions.

Brian Morrissey (03:35.96)
And joined, though he's mid-bite, Alex Schleifer. He's with us from his bunker. AB keeps, he's, I don't know if he's easing out. He's not here again. Is he still working on a deal or is traveling?

Troy (03:53.771)
I got to tell you guys, I yeah, always, always and always filled with anxiety. I had the I made a mistake of I was with a group of people. And one of them was a banker and he was exactly like Blake, like he would he sat at dinner with his AirPods in on a conference call. I mean, that's despicable. I told him. I told him leave the table, man, leave the table. I don't care what you're doing.

Alex (03:54.956)
He's a banker, he's always working on the deal, right?

Brian Morrissey (04:14.648)
psychos. It's great.

Alex (04:15.054)
Okay. Yeah, no, that's like jail time.

Troy (04:22.754)
I don't care how important this is. Leave the table. No, he was reviewing slides with a headset in at a nice dinner.

Brian Morrissey (04:32.268)
That's great. That's great. You either have it or you don't have it. That's the thing. You either got it or you don't have it.

Alex (04:37.07)
I think you get deported if you do that in France.

Brian Morrissey (04:39.768)
That is true.

Troy (04:41.185)
Alex (04:41.518)
That's when our ice kicks in.

Troy (04:44.482)
When our flight was canceled, he went into a full tailspin. He tried at the airport to charter a private jet to get back for a meeting.

Brian Morrissey (04:44.566)
Brian Morrissey (04:55.992)
Really? Did he try to bribe the gated agents? That would be a great movie.

Troy (05:00.319)
Well, they were down a flight attendant and when you're down a flight attendant and you're in Jamaica and you can't get another one, you have to cancel a flight.

Alex (05:08.466)
Adderall is a hell of a drug,

Brian Morrissey (05:10.646)
Yeah. We have a lot to get to, as they say. Okay, we don't have a lot to get to. We're going to talk about AI anxiety. It was a little bit of an AI Super Bowl. We've got new developments that are afoot. And I believe I've been tracking an anti-AI lane that is being established in politics. We have a bunch of other things.

Troy (05:14.742)
Don't say that, you can't say that.

Alex (05:28.802)
very anxious episode. It's a very anxious episode.

Brian Morrissey (05:39.544)
Also, I want to get into design, the Trump design aesthetic that's coming out of the government. Joe Gebbia, I assume you know him, Alex? Gebbia? I've never said that. Okay, you know him very well, so maybe you'll pull some punches, I don't know. But then also Mamdani, Mamdani's bringing his, he's in the honeymoon, I did call this, everyone's slobbering all over Mamdani. And he's very designed for it.

Alex (05:50.456)
Joe Gabbia. I know him very well. Yes, very well.

Brian Morrissey (06:09.368)
But the meat of the episode I wanna get to is I want you guys to help fix the Washington Post. It needs fixing. First, a little I'm doing this, thank you for doing this on a new day, both of you, because I'm in London. I haven't been here in a couple years. Another reminder, as I was walking around Kensington yesterday, that London has not fallen.

I wouldn't believe what you see in social media. Seems like a lovely place. I didn't get my phone stolen yesterday. So that was a good day. Yes, yes, it has become a symbol of all kinds of different things. I find it quite nice. I like London. I don't know how you guys feel.

Troy (06:43.926)
I read that MAGA hates London, Brian.

Alex (06:57.569)
Meg, hate like a lot of stuff.

Troy (07:00.962)
Well, they hate you for sure. And they hate London because it's a fading DEI socialist European capital that's lost its former glory.

Alex (07:15.896)
Have you been to London? And you know why it's, I mean, interesting. they're, they're, they're, they're, they're fine. And they're finally realizing what a disaster Brexit was. That's great. Everybody comes around to it.

Troy (07:19.104)
It's my favorite city outside of New York. I love London.

Brian Morrissey (07:27.096)
Yeah. But the different neighborhoods map to like New York City neighborhoods, I find. I usually stay in East London. It's a little cooler, a little rougher, et cetera. But I booked it the last minute and I'm staying over in South Kensington. It's like the Upper West Side, Upper East Side. Knights Bridge is down around like Madison Avenue, Harrods and expensive.

Alex (07:35.63)
Mm. Mm-hmm.

Troy (07:50.806)
The entire world maps to New York neighborhoods, Brian. The Hamptons maps to New York neighborhoods.

Brian Morrissey (07:54.059)
Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (07:57.58)
really? Wow, that would make sense. is New York just basically transplant, well, your strata of New York transplants itself.

Troy (07:58.082)
Yeah, yeah.

Troy (08:05.086)
No, Shelter Island is Brooklyn, Amagansett is Tribeca, East Hampton is Upper East Side.

Brian Morrissey (08:13.548)
What's mon talk?

Alex (08:13.934)
So what is West... like so you can probably do the same thing with Game of Thrones. Like does Westeros map to New York City?

Troy (08:16.256)
Montauk is Williamsburg. What?

Troy (08:23.04)
I don't know the Westeros neighborhoods very well.

Alex (08:26.23)
Okay, well then we can't really do that. I think King's Landing is probably Manhattan.

Brian Morrissey (08:27.544)
Hahaha

Brian Morrissey (08:33.016)
I don't know if it does so easily, because it's a make-believe world.

Alex (08:36.398)
I don't know. think Trey was going off on a tangent because he wanted his like everything maps to New York City system to work out.

Brian Morrissey (08:45.464)
I did notice there's a new hustle with the Wi-Fi at pubs. I went to get the Wi-Fi at a pub, which is a great product by the way. Pubs are great. Great communal gathering places. I paid for the beer. It had a multi-question survey. They collected first-party data. They got my age, they got my address, they got my date of birth.

Troy (09:01.004)
for socialists, for socialist plans.

Brian Morrissey (09:13.334)
Then they dumped me into a Book a Pub for Valentine's Day lead gen funnel. I thought you would appreciate, I thought of you Troy.

Anyway, tomorrow I'm hosting a media mixer here. It's a little old school mixer. We've got a great group coming.

Alex (09:33.454)
What's the difference between your mixer and your usual events?

Brian Morrissey (09:37.322)
It's a casual, mixers are just our casual social events. I don't wanna use the word networking. Networking is like webinar. don't, it just, don't use it. Just use euphemisms. We've got a great group coming.

Alex (09:49.73)
Do people hook up? Do people hook up? Yeah.

Troy (09:50.452)
Isn't it isn't a mixer for hooking up? I think that's right, Alex.

Brian Morrissey (09:53.08)
No, a mixer is not for, well, mean, it depends on a business way, I think that.

Alex (09:58.476)
I don't know. mean, you know, when you're into ad tech.

Troy (10:00.109)
Well, it ain't mixed until you hook up, right?

Alex (10:03.88)
when you're into ad tech your dating pool is pretty small so i think it's probably okay beehive one of the sponsors

Brian Morrissey (10:06.858)
It's not ad tech. My partners at Beehive are supporting this. We've got people from Conde, from The Guardian, from the Financial Times, News Corp, Immediate, hello. James Lehman or Lamon from football. Okay, I was coming. I think you know him, Troy. Yeah.

Troy (10:23.521)
I do know him.

Alex (10:24.226)
Isn't Beehive meant to sponsor us at some point? I'll move my, my sub stack over. Okay. Well, can you talk to them? Apparently they're having a networking event and you can meet them there.

Brian Morrissey (10:27.168)
Yes, we're working on that.

Brian Morrissey (10:35.08)
It's a collaboration. hopefully maybe I can see a couple of you there. know Lara O'Reilly, who is a faithful listener, will be there. So looking forward to it. See you in old France.

Alex (10:37.326)
Okay.

Troy (10:46.188)
On those kinds of executional issues where they don't hit your P &L immediately, nothing happens.

with you. Yeah, the beehive

Brian Morrissey (11:00.984)
Hit my p.l

Alex (11:04.27)
I'm even saying yes to advertising, Brian. is like, I'm scared. I'll wear the t-shirt. I'll do an ad read.

Brian Morrissey (11:06.368)
Okay, that's great. That's great. Well, like, okay. I'll wear a t-shirt. Okay, okay, okay.

Alex (11:14.942)
I'll wear a t-shirt. I won't wear a t-shirt. I won't wear a wet t-shirt. I mean, it depends. Everybody's got their price. I'm ready.

Brian Morrissey (11:17.016)
Okay, I you said you'd... I was wondering, it was very not European.

Brian Morrissey (11:25.72)
Couple of quick notes before we get into the meat. One is, this was very exciting to me, Mark Zuckerberg is moving to Indian Creek, which is this little private island right off Surfside, basically in Miami Beach. joins, Sergey Brin is looking in the area. Larry Page is already in Coconut Grove. They're joining the rest of the Exodus.

So when are you guys coming to Miami? That's my question.

Troy (11:56.259)
Are they going to put a thumbs up on the sign for the island?

Brian Morrissey (11:59.736)
I don't know, but he spent he's spending somewhere between 150 and 200 million dollars on His place there. He's buying it from the the guy who started Jersey Mike's It's a lot of subs that guy sold and then he sold it to private equity and I saw Basically their subs like the amount of actual lunch meat on the subs as you can imagine has gotten pretty paltry but he got out and and then he sold his his

Troy (12:02.081)
like

Brian Morrissey (12:28.792)
palatial estate in Miami Beach for 5X because all the billionaires want to avoid taxes. I think they're going to be back in California within two years.

Alex (12:39.234)
those fucking guys, I'm so tired of them. I just like.

Brian Morrissey (12:41.56)
Okay, I was scoping neighborhoods for you, so that's a no.

Alex (12:44.078)
really to hang out with that fucking bunch of losers? Jesus Christ.

Troy (12:51.082)
Well, your opinion would change if you were above the, you know, the billion dollar threshold, Alex, you would be.

Brian Morrissey (12:51.35)
Okay, well.

Alex (12:56.792)
They pay less taxes than you do, Troy. So just like, I mean, avoiding taxes, once you get past that bracket and you have all the instruments at your disposal.

Troy (13:06.848)
This is much more complicated than just avoiding taxes because it has to do with valuations and liquidity and all kinds of

Alex (13:13.006)
I know, are lots of things. sure. Like live in California, enjoy all the success that you can have here by having access to talent. And the second you made it really big, bail the fuck out for two years and then come back. It's all performative bullshit. I'm tired of these guys. I'm just like, I I'm unsubscribed for a lot of tech news because it's just like that circle jerk of like these fucking cowards just bouncing around trying to avoid taxes. I'm Paying attention to these.

Troy (13:39.84)
You're like a hip Scott Galloway. You're like Scott Galloway without plastic surgery.

Brian Morrissey (13:40.696)
Okay.

Alex (13:42.392)
Fox.

Brian Morrissey (13:44.63)
Yeah.

Alex (13:45.74)
No, Scout Galloway annoys me too. had like unsubscribes from all this stuff. I realized at some point, like somebody like Scout Galloway is either wrong or says something completely obvious. And I don't need to spend time with that. Maybe I'm just like, I'm hitting 50 this year. I'm just becoming a disgruntled old man. I'm just joining your ranks, But I still love you, Troy.

Brian Morrissey (14:04.914)
Thank you for thank you for leaving me out. Another note.

Troy (14:07.17)
Remember that photo I circulated? Now, God, you're 50 now, You're just the same age as me, basically. I remember I thought you were just a boy.

Alex (14:08.472)
Wait,

Alex (14:16.236)
Basically, I was just a boy.

Troy (14:18.69)
God, now I love you even more. I love you, Alex. Okay.

Alex (14:23.79)
I love you too, Brian, keep this shot in the road. This is a mess. This is a mess.

Brian Morrissey (14:27.136)
I don't know if you saw it. Did you see? I'm trying.

Troy (14:27.458)
Are we doing anxiety? What are we doing? Are we going to hit anxiety first? What are we going to hit?

Brian Morrissey (14:33.848)
No, want to talk real quickly about, did you see the video of the new Vogue editor with Anna Wintour? She gave her first interview to the Times. It was a video interview with Anna Wintour. they asked her like, well, they asked Chloe Maul, who's the new editor, about what she would do if she had the 90s budgets. She talked about building a podcast studio and everything.

Alex (14:48.568)
popped up this morning I didn't get to watch it what happened

Brian Morrissey (15:03.41)
And Anna Wintour would, of course, just like brush past the question, or she just said, you know, hey, we still have ample budgets. The interesting part was when the interviewer asked if, when they last got nervous. Chloe said that before that interview, and Anna Wintour just said, I don't get nervous. It's a new down to earth era in publishing, because those budgets are not coming back.

All right, let's get into the AI anxiety. Did you guys watch the Super Bowl? Alex did not. I didn't really watch much of it myself, but I did see the commercials. And Super Bowl commercials are very strange in this kind of decentralized culture. They keep going up in price, but I feel like nothing lasts. these always, we would be writing about them in Adweek like weeks later. was like, life moved on. But nothing seems to stick. I can't believe people are paying $8 million for them.

Coinbase ad was atrocious, but there was AI ads, of course. The Claude ad ran. They did tweak it because they were just simply lying about open AI. We talked about this last week, And iSpot had a survey afterwards and said it performed terribly. They were making fun.

Troy (16:19.714)
Well, because people don't understand the discussion. They just don't know what they're even talking about.

Brian Morrissey (16:25.536)
Right. Has there been, and I think it highlighted something that we've talked about a lot. There's this massive gap and I feel it as an ex addict, which I am doing better about, not great, but I'm doing better. When I open that app and maybe it's my algorithm, I'm just flooded with this, you have 18 months to accumulate capital because all work is going away. And this AI accelerationist,

that meme that has taken over the entire place. And then you go out in the regular world and people are like, yeah, sometimes you use it instead of Google. I can't remember this big of a gap. I don't remember it with the internet exactly. mean, some people were using email before others, but I don't remember it being this dark. Do you feel this way, Troy?

Troy (17:17.47)
Mm hmm. Well, I feel I think that the anxiety is, you know, the sort of collision of different perspectives on what AI how it will will affect us. And you have like, kind of political philosophers like Michael Sandel talking about, you know, a technology that will fundamentally change what it means to be human and all of the consequences of sort of consumers versus a civic conception of

of freedom and how we participate in the world, the loss of human presence, you know, the disappearance of dignity and work, when people that own capital don't even have have capital or control the machines don't care about, you know, human agency. So you have that sort of, you know, where are we going as a society? And then you have the sort of internet's digital conscience Tristan Harris talking about the evilness of the platforms.

And then you have like guys like this week, Matt Schumer, who's like some, you know, startup dude, engineer guy. And he wrote, what did he, he wrote that thing. What was it called? What's this? Do you remember the piece? I circulated it guys. was called, this is, what was this piece called? I think.

Like three people texted me about it today. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And essentially the essence of, know, he's right. Well, he's writing from a kind of developers point of view saying that, you know, the model innovations that came with Codex and Anthropics new model have draft dramatically changed the capabilities of models to write.

Brian Morrissey (18:46.572)
Something big is happening.

Brian Morrissey (18:51.672)
I feel like I've read this before.

Troy (19:08.834)
to make things from end to end. In other words, the AI can now build itself that we're entering a period of acceleration that you can instruct. They're so good. You can go from schematics, design, coding, QA deployment, and that systems can now self-create.

you know, everything we told blue collar workers to become an IT guy, or we told, you know, humanity students to go get to learn about coding is all irrelevant now. And the amount that that displacement will spread from, you know, technology workers, to lawyers, to consultants, to financial people, to medical people, and on and on, but it'll come first, you know, obviously, in the place where we make the machines.

now the machines can make themselves and that it's the amount of upheaval and displacement is going to be profound. you've got like, like, I don't know, I feel it when I, you know, try to understand like, you know, maybe we'll take a minute later to talk about what this, you know, agentic world means to, to media. like, I don't even know. I I'm not quite sure what advice to give companies right now.

Like what do you do next, whether you're a media company or something else? And I think it's just a

Brian Morrissey (20:41.912)
Well, this is a job that exists. So Austin Reif, who was one of the co-founders of Morning Brew, he put out this tweet. He's like, I want to pay someone to come in and set up, talk to me about how people are using AI and set everything up, open claw, et cetera. And I sent him an email today and he was like, yeah, I got over 100 responses. He goes, I'm going through them. I'm going to just hire someone.

Troy (21:03.276)
WHA-

Brian Morrissey (21:11.32)
to set all this stuff up. And I want that. So I told Austin, want who you choose. I to see how goes for you. And then I want this person to come and just do it for me with what I want to accomplish. I don't want to learn all this stuff. I really don't. Everyone, like all the coders and everything, I don't want to do it. I don't want to do it. I don't know. I have someone come in to fix things in the apartment. I never learned. I could. I probably should be able to fix my own toilet. I don't. And I just want someone to be able to do this for me and see.

I think the big thing that I wonder about all of this and in reading that essay that Matt Schumer wrote was that his entire thesis to me was that what's happened to coding is coming for all of you. And that it hinges on that. And I wonder if that's true because he said basically the AI companies focused on coding first.

And that's why I'm screaming at Chachibetii, because it's horrible at doing writing and a lot of other things. And that they're going to now double back and do what they've done to coding to everything else. Now, I can understand that as a developer, because again, we've seen time and again, particularly out of the tech industry, they think everything is just like tech. That's why Jeff Bezos goes into media and falls on his face. And it's not. It's not.

And I think that like the code is different than doing things that involve a lot of different kinds of judgment and gray areas and that are a lot more qualitative than this. Alex, am I onto something here? Because like, I don't doubt that the spaceship is over the White House and whatnot. I just find these kinds of essays that again, I've read like so many times at this point, a little too simplistic.

Troy (23:06.486)
Well, I don't know where Alex is.

Brian Morrissey (23:10.904)
Did Alex disappear?

Troy (23:14.102)
he said that he's got server connection errors from Riverside.

Brian Morrissey (23:18.945)
Okay.

Brian Morrissey (23:25.464)
Do you want to answer,

Troy (23:27.522)
Well, it reminds me of a text thread that I had this morning with a $2,500 an hour lawyer who, you know, I...

Alex (23:40.319)
Sorry about that. Riverside booted me out. I'm sorry.

Troy (23:45.282)
Alex (23:46.047)
Sorry, can you start over? Yes, I'm sorry to interrupt.

Brian Morrissey (23:50.326)
Wait, which sentence did you cut out?

I'm not doing my whole spiel again.

Alex (23:56.693)
I don't know, whatever I came into. No, you don't have to do the old speed. I don't know how much I missed. Riverside just gave me a server error.

Brian Morrissey (24:04.92)
Okay, we're going to go back to the $2,500 an hour lawyer. this Ori? No? Because he told me...

Troy (24:11.218)
No. Don't first of all, don't put that in there, Vanya. Don't name names of people I want on vacation with. And it's definitely not Ori. And Ori's not a lawyer, dude. So, okay, so.

Brian Morrissey (24:21.517)
Is he cheaper or more expensive? he's not. I thought he was a lawyer.

Alex (24:29.931)
called a fixer. It's called a fixer.

Brian Morrissey (24:35.01)
They're going to be paid on outcomes, not on freaking hours anyway.

Troy (24:38.858)
Well, so I don't know exactly. Well, let's start from your question, Brian, which is, it was all of this. These are questions that I pose to people that I work with and people that I care about. And it strikes me that the legal profession is one step removed from coding. It's rules and it's somewhere between

coding and scripture. And there are systems that govern what we can and can't do and how we structure relationships between people. And I don't know about you, but if you're doing legal documents, which I do, AI is insanely useful. it seems to me that, and we saw, what was it last week where?

anthropic released a plugin that allowed you to analyze contracts more effectively or something like that, that had profound effects on, you know, software valuations. And, and I just think if you're being paid if you know, $2,500 an hour as a senior attorney, then that's maybe fine for a few years and you're at the top of a pyramid where you can be sort of

accountable for the output of the systems underneath of you, whether those are human or AI. And, and, I, I think that that'll last for a while. But, you know, I think beyond that, the industry is in fact, to change radically and really quickly. And I don't know exactly what the response is for a young lawyer, other than

Alex (26:13.643)
That's right.

Troy (26:34.238)
you know, try to create value in the system by using these tools, which is really what everybody says, get to know them, be adaptable, become one with the AI. But I don't know why, you know, a business that basically is a coding business of sorts, isn't going to just change dramatically, just like the coding world. And, and, and I think the guy's right. I'm, you know, here, I'm, I'm, talking about, what's his name? Schumer.

Like, how many students a year leave college with the promise of getting a job in the world of technology? Tons. I mean, it's what we've been telling liberal arts students or students of any kind is to get a technical education. And I don't know. seems like my money would be on getting a liberal arts education at this

Alex (27:35.115)
Yeah, but I think it's a little bit more complex. mean, I do think that the people in law firms that will be paid purely because they're the accountable human, right? And that will become a job. I think even in engineering, yeah, I think even in engineering, there's going to be like,

Brian Morrissey (27:48.076)
You need someone to sue.

Alex (27:55.827)
It's going to be hard because, and we're seeing that with the SAS, you know, valuation, the software as a service industry is being decimated because people can see that, you know, it's not maybe Brian, you might not start programming your own CRM management system, but there's going to be hundreds of little upstarts that are able to try to build something new. are going to be companies that currently do one thing that now have the opportunity to do five things.

Right. Because, but I, but I, I, what I'm, what I've noticed and the most successful uses of AI, coding has been people who are technical to begin with. Right. And I think a lot of the learning of the language and the syntax and stuff for that, that's a little bit of superfluous knowledge. but yet like when you're a technically minded person, there's all of a sudden extra stuff you can do. Right. So I know an engineer who started programming his own little boards that worked custom screens and now he's a

hardware designer. I actually feel like there's going to be some readjustments of what those jobs mean. my biggest challenge is that there's no pipeline. A lot of these jobs that are going to be replaced are pipeline jobs into those roles. That's the job you do, the menial coding stuff, the code review stuff, or going through a document as a of a pre-legal.

And that type of stuff, I mean, I don't understand why companies would hire young people to do that. I actually think there's going to be an explosion of like really high profit margins around software and law and stuff like that comes from that.

Troy (29:37.603)
There is for sure. There's going to be a period of time when, between some weird future where everything is agentic and robotic and AI controlled and there's no need for humans and the present where there's unnatural profits to be made for sure. And I think that my advice would be pretty basic. Run all the costs out of your company that are connected to the old world, right? Customer support.

coding, design, legal, finance, like embrace the technology and simplify your cost structure and increase speed. Really, really critical. Look at any part of your value chain as a company that's in any way defensible that you can get even better at. Like if you're making a thing, how do you make it in a way that meets the needs of the audience and that the cycle times are quicker?

And you know, the feedback loops between you and your customer are more elegant. I mean, I think that, you know, in any business you have to do. It's generalized, but just let me hear me out, Alex. There's going to be far more competition because what AI is going to do is lower the barrier to entry in every industry. Because anybody can make shit. Like.

Alex (30:43.85)
I that's not it. Yeah, I agree with you.

Alex (30:59.839)
Yeah, and yeah, like the people who make my CRM software can now also make my tax management software, whatever. But if we're giving advice, I do think that is straight up great advice. I feel like the critical one though is that we need to completely rethink how we evaluate and hire people.

Troy (31:10.338)
100%.

Alex (31:27.531)
Because right now, hiring process, specifically at scale, specifically at large companies, has been kind of coasting on this idea that you have a degree, you have a very specific set of skill sets that are easy to test for. Like, here's an exam and here's the test. And you're not testing for any of these other intrinsic skill sets that are going to be really useful. Like, how do you test curiosity and the ability to think and see around corners and think creatively about a problem and all of these things?

It doesn't matter if you cut everything. It's the people in your company and other people that can start adapting to this new technology. my guess is like, you've got to throw out the handbook on how you hire people and who you hire. Like it doesn't work anymore.

Brian Morrissey (32:07.586)
Yeah.

Troy (32:10.016)
Yeah, I agree with that.

Brian Morrissey (32:10.2)
I have an idea. Why don't you just go back and talk to people? Why don't you stop testing them? Why don't you stop with the brain teasers and all that dumbass shit that Google was constantly doing? why don't you go to a mixer and talk to people and understand whether they have that curiosity, whether they're actually interesting people, whether they think about things? There's a crazy idea.

Alex (32:20.683)
Brian, that sounds like really hard work. It just sounds like hard work.

Alex (32:33.653)
But where could I find a mixer? Where could I find a mixer like that? Where I can find like-minded people? really? And you might hook up, apparently. Brian says that you might hook

Brian Morrissey (32:37.496)
There's one tomorrow in Soho in London. No, seriously, why not? There's no hookups. There's no hookups. It's possible. What about marketing? Is marketing then? Because I wonder what lines up perfectly with code. Because honestly, putting on mixers does not line up with what I see out of ChatGBT and Claude.

Alex (32:48.427)
I don't know, you can't say that, maybe.

Troy (32:51.34)
No.

Troy (33:05.3)
Well, I think there's the mechanical process side of things where you need to, like I said, build for fast loops and efficiency. And then there's the craft side of things where, you know, the human part of it is even more important. So your brand is more important. Your sensibility is more important. You know, people that know where to point the machines are more important. And, you know, I just think that

you know, that there's a period of time that the people that have, that can create leverage with technology are going to be insanely valuable. And so, and I don't know how that, you know, I mean, what it means is that remember Omnicom has a hundred thousand employees. It's like, you know, clearly that industry is going to be rationalized. And, and, and so, yeah, I mean, I think that a lot of that work is busy work.

Brian Morrissey (33:43.927)
Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (34:04.928)
Yeah, think Harvard Business School had a study that looked at how AI is actually being used in companies. And basically, it's intensifying work. It's taking out... People love to shit on all the dumb stuff that you have to do as part of work. You have to do the meetings, you have to do the check-ins and the coordination. mean, look at the Epstein files. How much time did they spend just trying to figure out where people were?

to have some illicit meetings, was ridiculous. And yeah, in theory, let's take that all away. It turns out when you take out all those worthless meetings and you leave just actual real work, it's really exhausting. Like I found this just without the AI of like leaving like a company world where I was constantly in meetings and stuff. And then I had to like really just do like work. It stinks. Like you got, it's like really tiring.

Alex (35:00.363)
Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (35:03.296)
I think that's going to be the thing is that people are going to be affected by the most, at least initially. I think a lot of this stuff with we're going to wipe away all jobs is overblown. I just don't believe it. maybe, But I do think what's interesting

Alex (35:16.853)
I mean, you still need people to make enough money to buy all this shit that they're going to say that we're going to be building with this infinite supply of robots.

Brian Morrissey (35:23.18)
Yeah.

Brian Morrissey (35:28.12)
But I do think that this is and and again, I've talked about this a lot This is a really weird technology that is arriving with so much fear and anxiety and people simply aren't excited about it being shoved down their throats Particularly because it plays into the the oligarchs and people shoving it down our throats They they live in an Indian Creek, you know, and and they have their own like maritime police force there So they might need it actually

They might be smart to be on an island with their own maritime police force Ron DeSantis Florida's governor is Looking for a lane to make a comeback. I don't think he has the Riz to be president and he arguably is not tall enough, but He's testing AI populism. He's really anti AI. He's a very conservative governor very smart guy to whether you agree with him or not and He keeps going after data centers

and he keeps going after AI. And I'm very interested because he sees this as a wedge issue to pin this on JD Vance and to take out JD Vance as the presumed successor. I don't know where Marco Rubio falls in that. And we're going to see politics reshaped, I believe, by the backlash against AI. It can come in the

in the guise of data centers are incredibly unpopular. I don't live somewhere where there's a ton of data centers. mean, there's that one in Tribeca and that strange building on, what is it, on Church Street. But people don't like the data centers at all, and they become a symbol of this. And so I think it's gonna reshape politics. And you saw that a little bit with the Chat-CHI-BT ad.

Troy (37:09.491)
Ahem.

Brian Morrissey (37:21.088)
Like I'm always interested in how you advertise. Yeah, well, no, I'm sorry. The OpenAI ad, it was for Codex during the Super Bowl. You know, they never actually show people actually using their product for what it's. It's always these like metaphors of people doing stuff in the real world. Never the actual what the actual product does.

Alex (37:24.203)
and chat GPT at.

Alex (37:46.955)
No, it's insanity. It's insanity. And if they give examples, they go like, help me plan a delightful birthday for my aging grandmother. It's like, nope, everybody's using this stuff already, guys. you know, like there's the advertising has been very, very bad.

Brian Morrissey (38:05.88)
So I think there's going to be a big lane for the anti-AI message for the reason is this is causing middle-class anxiety. It's one thing Chris Hayes had a video a little short reel out about how what was what basically globalization did to the blue collar workers, which was deindustrialized and replaced them their jobs by shipping them to to other countries.

This is basically technology replacing workers and it's us versus them. I think it is a perfect lane. John Edwards was onto something with the two Americas. Unfortunately, he did have that secret love child that knocked his candidacy out, but he was onto something with that message. This is gonna be a very clear populist message that is a fork off of MAGA.

Book it. Can we talk about MAGA and design a little bit? So you're our design guru, Alex, although Troy, I don't know, mean, graphic design is Troy's passion. I've seen some of his work.

Alex (39:10.005)
Sure.

Alex (39:23.203)
Troy's pretty good. Troy's got good text. Just as with everything, he wants somebody else to do it.

Brian Morrissey (39:25.088)
Yeah. OK, yeah.

Yeah, exactly. Joe... Move the pixels around. Joe Gebbia is the nation's first chief design officer and he is redesigning the sort of front end of a lot of these horrific government websites. Like government websites are never terrible. Although healthcare.gov, after a horrible start, it's not the worst user experience. At least I didn't find.

Alex (39:32.371)
including move his mic in front of his mouth and move the pixels around.

Yeah.

Troy (39:58.113)
Is that the new AI driven one that aligned with the Mike Tyson ad? Is that the maha site that then all the libs went in and tried to get it just tell them what kinds of fruits or vegetables would be the best to put in their asses?

Brian Morrissey (40:04.414)
I don't... Well, they've got a maha site.

Brian Morrissey (40:15.64)
I didn't see that one. The latest one is this Trump... Okay.

Alex (40:16.683)
No

Troy (40:17.602)
it's a big thing this morning, which is tricking the stupid chatbot on the Maha site.

Brian Morrissey (40:25.752)
But the design, I want to focus on the design, okay? Because TrumpRx.com came out and some of these sites, they're nice sites, you know? But they're just like landing pages. The government infrastructure is still the government infrastructure. But have you checked out these sites, Alex? I'm wondering if you have any opinions on

Alex (40:27.007)
Wonderful.

Troy (40:28.0)
liberals are so lame sometimes.

Alex (40:49.419)
Yeah, I mean, I think, yeah, you're talking about the TrumperX site. It's nicely designed. looks like, know, looks like Hymns or any one of these kind of millennial, you know, design sites. Honestly, at this stage, I was testing that stuff out and you can design a site like that with AI in like 20 minutes.

because so much of it is derivative, but it hasn't been really used in government. And honestly, outside of all the other stuff, yeah, we should design better sites. Although, I'm just uncomfortable by how it's named, that it ends with a... If you scroll all the way down and you go past the main thing that they advertise, which is We Go Vienna's Epic, it ends in a giant...

graphic of a golden eagle holding the Trump Rx logo. And is it tasteful? I don't know. Somebody likes it.

Brian Morrissey (41:51.532)
Okay.

Look, you worked in an agency. The client is the client, right? You got to deliver for the client.

Alex (42:01.843)
yeah, yeah. And right now Trump's the client for everything, you you, you know, I, we were, I wonder what he's like as a client. Do you think he was in a design review, Troy? I think the only thing they did is that they scrolled all the way down and showed him the golden eagle and that's it.

Brian Morrissey (42:16.636)
No, am very, I am very, I am excited actually. I think he's going to be able to make a lot of progress on the design of the web interface for the government because Trump doesn't pay attention to any of shit. He's an interior design guy. I mean, he's all about interior design. He's America's first gay president. He is totally into interior design. He does not pay attention to websites.

Troy (42:27.394)
Yeah.

Alex (42:31.787)
Yeah, yeah, that's true. He gets very excited when it's...

Troy (42:38.176)
you know i i think i think alex

Alex (42:38.591)
Yeah, and only old media as well. Like anything that's on the newspaper or on TV.

Troy (42:43.178)
I mean, this is all an extension of kind of web 2.0 design rules that are popularized by big companies like Airbnb and Apple and the like. think at this point it's total commodity and AI can design it or, you know, there's certainly rules that accelerate the creation of those kinds of pages. The problem with government websites was partly design.

and, bringing a kind of user centricity to, to, to, to how they executed. But I think the bigger problem was, is they reflected, the, the, the organizational complexity and incoherence of government more than they did a kind of design problem. So it was less about, you know, something on the page. was like their APIs were no good. You know, you couldn't do the things you wanted to do. And so now we're getting to a place where more and more of that can be automated.

I think on that front, it's great to see that it'll be easier to do shit like file a document or pay your taxes. It's just going to be better. It's good. Go Joe.

Brian Morrissey (43:53.078)
Yeah.

Alex (43:54.539)
I mean, I don't think we've seen that. I think it looks nicer right now. And is it working better yet? Time will tell. Because at the end of the day, it is all those packets.

Troy (44:00.355)
See if it works better, yeah.

Brian Morrissey (44:02.936)
Yeah, well, mean, look, there's Booz Allen. I mean, Booz Allen, you can only do so much with Booz Allen. Like, I don't know. mean, but let's just start with, you know, a nice packaging. Mamdani also is carrying forth his campaign design language into his governing style. I think design is going to become an important part of how these politicians go about their business.

Troy (44:29.534)
Mm-hmm.

Brian Morrissey (44:31.884)
I know if you guys have seen it.

Troy (44:34.306)
I saw the one you sent around which was for an event they were putting on, Brian. What was that?

Alex (44:41.099)
The New Yorkers versus Badlands.

Brian Morrissey (44:43.916)
Yeah, I mean, it's all branding. Like, you know, like he's he's great at getting attention and he's.

Alex (44:47.251)
It is.

Troy (44:48.704)
I don't know about you guys, but I'm on the side of bad landlords, 100%.

Brian Morrissey (44:52.362)
You

Alex (44:53.249)
we know, we know. I think, the thing with Mamdani would... Yeah, okay. Really? Okay. Yeah, that's right. It's just working right now. And nobody wants what he's serving up. I think the thing with Mamdani that he does really well is that it's not only design, but it's the narrative of community. And a lot of the design...

Troy (44:57.558)
I mean this is cynical politics. my god, is this horrible. Come on. Grow the fuck up,

Alex (45:22.677)
kind of talks about community, kind of social movements. It pulls back. It's very New York. And even like just the way his events were, it's about bringing people together. And I think that's really successful. And also like having a fucking opinion. Because like if somebody else tells me like, well, you know, we should keep going with the stuff that's been happening before. Like, hey, you might not agree with everything, but at least that guy's trying. And his message and his narrative and his design are

Troy (45:26.252)
feels like a bodega.

Alex (45:51.815)
all aligned around this idea of like New York, a community, people getting together. It's like really genius. mean, doesn't, the Trump Rx stuff is pretty because it uses some baseline rules that are very commodified, like you said, but the Vandani stuff is actually like dependent on like a larger narrative, which I think is really genius. you know, like if the Obama hope thing was also just like part of a design system and great design system and great branding, we kind of dismiss it at, it's all branding.

It's a narrative, it's a story that we tell people and if enough people believe in that fiction then maybe it can become real and I think they're doing an amazing job. It's amazing. It's like generational, job that they're doing. Like, you know.

Brian Morrissey (46:33.56)
Okay, let's put a pin on that as they say and segue into a very difficult job and that's running the Washington Post. Troy, you missed last week. We talked about this a little bit. After we recorded over the weekend, Will Lewis, the CEO of the Washington Post, exited, I guess as they say, which usually means that someone was fired. But he left the Washington Post. The CRO is gone.

over 40 % of their newsroom is gone. It could be up to 50 % really when you add up the numbers. A blame game has begun. You can say it went too woke. You can blame Bezos. I blamed Bezos. That's an easy one probably. You could have blamed Will Lewis and management. You can blame the journalists. They're making stuff that people don't want. You can blame, I don't know.

big platforms, maybe AI and whatnot. But the question is, what does the Washington Post need in a CEO? Because I use the opportunity to do, I don't know if you saw this, I don't think Alex reads my newsletter, but maybe you do sometimes, Troy. I did a thing of the art.

Troy (47:53.684)
If I'm super, if I'm super bored.

Brian Morrissey (47:56.032)
Okay, thank you the archetypes of of media of media CEOs because they they named jeff don freo, as yes, the cfo into ceo perfect caretaker He's an interim ceo. The cfo is always the sort of safest choice, particularly for an interim, know, that's what the most important thing is but

Alex (48:06.633)
a tabloid guy, right?

Brian Morrissey (48:25.28)
Walk us through Troy. I'm interested in your take on what do you think the Washington Post needs? Jeff Bezos calls you up and says, Troy, what do I need here?

Troy (48:38.338)
Good Lord. Actually, this happened to me against a different media brand last week. it's a hard question right now. But I just pull back a little bit, Brian, and I would think about it like this, that media, especially now that all of these businesses tilt more towards selling a product to people, They're subscription businesses. So it's really simple, right? Media is a product that someone has to buy for a reason.

And, you know, this was a bit of a reset post the sort of scale programmatic era. And, and, and I would say, think it's summarized best by my friend, Chris Kimball, who says to sell media, you have to have a transformational promise that people buy. Right. It makes you better. It makes you happier. It makes you richer. It makes you skinnier. It makes you more competent at your job. You have to be faced with.

a value proposition that you say, can see myself in this and this is going to help me be more of what I want to be. And if it doesn't, you have a product market fit problem, right? Like that's the most simple way to look at media, right? And people can say, you're losing a hundred million dollars a year. You're worth $200 billion. Who gives a shit? Just keep you. This is your, you know, this is your obligation as a billionaire to support a dying media franchise. But really,

The loss is a signal that you have a product problem. It's not a signal that you should dump more money in it because you're like a benevolent guy. It's like you have a product problem. People aren't buying what you're making people. Like that's the problem. And so I think that then you juxtapose this with a sort of tech mindset. When those guys say, you know, we need some first principles thinking, I want to like,

It's like, but like the mindset here is, you know, the, me, the tech mindset and Alex, you can kind of elaborate on this, but it's like, do hard things around a thesis where you think there's a problem in the market that's not being served and an optimization cycle or principle and optimize, optimize, optimize with really smart people that can take in the signals and make a machine and do it better and faster than someone else. then,

Troy (51:03.318)
You have the arrogance, of course, because you're a billionaire and you, you know, turned a bookstore in your garage into like a trillion dollar enterprise to think that that's true for media, right? Except that media is a craft industry and the people issues are much harder. They probably hate you. They're cat, right? They're not dogs. And the culture is really, really key.

Values and value alignment are really key and change is much harder. So when you go in there and you think we just have to optimize around the data, which was the message that was all Bezos basically had to say this time around. mean, of course you need data. Every business needs data. Right? So.

Alex (51:43.787)
my god, is so stupid. Yeah, that's like baby, baby shit. Also, also they're talking like it's 12 years ago whenever when he bought it. Like it's too late, It's just like, what the fuck are you doing?

Brian Morrissey (51:57.676)
Yeah, get sharp beat.

Troy (52:00.355)
You know, mean, I got to tell you I had, you know, part of my thesis at Hearst was really similar is that there was a group of print editors that had no connection to their audience, other than like I think of kind of a superficial one. They were hired for different reasons. And it was fine then because their point of view on the world really mattered. And that cascaded down through a print product to a detached audience and data wasn't that important. You got a little bit of it, but it really wasn't important.

And my solution at the time was to run all of our data feeds into Slack, completely change how the organization worked and create a semantic engine around every possible piece of data that could help people do their jobs better. That didn't mean that talent didn't need to be a focus or that, you know, you didn't need to kind of create a culture in which people could do and make good media where you could take the risks and find new things and anticipate trends and do good reporting and all that. But if you look at Washington Post,

you know, a little bit more mechanically, you would say clearly there's a leadership issue. Clearly there's an execution issue. They should have cut sooner and refocus the business into places where the reporting was unique and more defensible. They decided to build a stack for the industry, a tech stack that was called ARC. What a waste of time. They should have put that energy into building the most elegant, you know, consumer experience that they could have.

I think it's tough to be a regional newspaper, right? You're not big enough to be the sort of liberal paper of record and you have too much cost. So you got to cut back on that. You know, I think that you got to figure out what beats really, really matter. You stood on the sidelines as like three other companies came in and took the Washington beat from you. It's a company town, right? Politico, Axios, Punchbowl, they came in and took that core business.

And I would ask, like, who do you really matter to? Are you a community newspaper that really serves the needs of the community? Are you serving the needs of the business people that have economic interests in that market? Are you serving the needs of people that need to understand Washington outside of those markets? But like, you have no distribution advantage, obviously, anymore, right? Having the paper in people's mailboxes doesn't exist. You have a cost disadvantage.

Troy (54:26.26)
It's you're not, you're not clear enough because nobody's in the company that's like super motivated to make it work because it's their money saying, where can we create product market fit around people that really need us and will pay for our product? And yeah, I mean, you thought for a minute that you could be the sort of, you know, like force again, you know, democracy dies in darkness.

And like that evaporated and that wasn't enough. And that isn't, that's a slogan. That's not, it's a hack. It's not about really serving the needs of an audience. And so I applaud the change. I think it's a real drag that it took this long to get there and that there's this much carnage, but they probably don't need 800 people in the newsroom, Brian. They can't afford it.

Brian Morrissey (54:56.844)
That's a hack. It's a hack. We keep talking about the hacks.

Brian Morrissey (55:12.152)
Wait, you applaud the change.

Brian Morrissey (55:18.216)
Yeah, no, mean, okay. At the same time, I think when you're going back, it's what is the identity of the Washington Post? It doesn't have an identity. And all of the examples you went through, I think, are completely correct. I think the question is, who is it essential to? And I don't understand how the Washington Post, throughout its history,

has always been pulled from being a hometown paper because their hometown happens to be the seat of the US federal government into being more than that. And because of Watergate and their history around that, and they evaporate, they eviscerated it and just wiped away all of their Washington coverage. You compare this to like say even just the Boston Globe. The Boston Globe is profitable.

It gets like 70 % of its revenue from subscriptions. Washington is far bigger. Washington is the fifth largest metropolitan area by the size of its economy.

Troy (56:22.754)
Yeah, totally. it was run by, it's run by John Henry, who was also a billionaire detached from the organization insisted that his team focus ruthlessly on subscriptions. And then when they needed to innovate around sort of industry focus, they create something, they created a, a, a, health focus product called, what is it called Brian? Stat. And

Alex (56:25.099)
Why does he...

Troy (56:47.938)
built a B2B business around that as an appendage to the Boston Globe. If you look, by the way, at the comps right now, mean, just to highlight the importance of execution here, there are four companies that all came out and announced their results in the last couple of weeks. The New York Times, People, Inc., Bloomberg, and Thomson Reuters. All of them had close to 10 % revenue improvements in 2025 driven by

even with all the platform difficulties that say someone like a people would have congratulations to Neil, you know, advertising revenue up subscription revenue up premium advertising, is doing well affiliates doing well. And so, yeah, they've been hit on the programmatic side, but these are just scrappy operators that have managed to build a business that worked and yet set aside the New York times. Cause I think it's an outlier, but like.

You know, Bloomberg built a business. They built a nice business. People built a nice business.

Alex (57:49.355)
I think you guys are, I think you guys are, but you, I've been listening to a lot of this kind of coverage and I think maybe we're all missing something. I mean, it seems pretty.

Brian Morrissey (58:01.59)
Is this where Alex comes in and is like, you know, there are mobile games that are bigger and more impactful businesses.

Alex (58:07.123)
No, it's not that. I think, I just think that like, it was, you know, there was nothing done for 12 years. The layoffs happened terribly. The CEO wasn't there. Jeff Bezos is somebody that's used to be able to tell people when they're allowed to go take a piss. So it must be really hard working with difficult journalists. we, nobody understands why he still wants this, even if he can make it bigger, even if he can make it the number one Washington newspaper, it's going to be.

You know, it's not gonna, it's not, this is entirely a leverage game. This guy just spent $70 billion to make a documentary. hey, he wants to, $70 million to make a doc. These days we don't know. And now there is a newspaper that you can use as a leverage point and that's 100 % what he wants to do. So you kind of trim it down, simplify it, put a friendly CEO in it.

Troy (58:45.622)
million million

Brian Morrissey (58:47.064)
Yeah, although these days you never know.

Alex (59:02.455)
I'm annoyed with all the people telling you know, it wasn't it was not his radar. He wasn't paying attention. There's just going to be people walking around saying, got to coming into the company saying, hey, we got to take the internet seriously, because it's happening guys, and we need data. But in fact, it's entirely just like a mouthpiece to make sure that he can get his rocket contract signed. you know, I don't think I'm being paranoid. I think that's entirely what's happening. Because there's no other reason for him to keep it. It's, you know,

Brian Morrissey (59:32.086)
What's funny because I mean.

Alex (59:32.523)
The guy owns a $500 billion yacht, he's fine. He doesn't want to make media work, he doesn't care.

Brian Morrissey (59:37.952)
Yeah, no, mean, I

I think his compound on Indian Creek at this point might be valued higher than what the Washington Post is.

Alex (59:49.791)
Yeah, and that thing's gonna get decimated and be used as like whatever mouthpiece he needs to make whoever happy that he needs to make happy. That's fine. That's his toy to play with.

Brian Morrissey (01:00:02.498)
But media is always a good front end business for some other purpose. I mean, you mentioned all the different earnings that were good, but you missed News Corp. That was a couple of weeks ago. They're doing well. And the journal is doing well, and the journal is the front for a bunch of different businesses in Dow Jones that are mostly around pricing services and a lot of these B2B businesses. I don't know what...

Jeff Bezos wants the Washington Post to be. That's why I said he owns all of this at the end of the day. What is the purpose? Fine. You don't want to lose $100 million a year. I get it, I guess. But at the same time, if you haven't said what is it that this company is trying to do, I don't think it's clear at all what he wants to do. So who knows what kind of new CEO he wants because

Troy (01:00:53.623)
FU-

Brian Morrissey (01:00:57.45)
I don't know if it has an identity.

Alex (01:01:00.405)
I don't think it needs a strategy, think there's somebody right now that likes newspapers and things that are written about him in the newspaper, and that's it. I mean, that's a pretty, you you run it lean and you can put whatever you want on the front page. That's great. Like, it doesn't look like there's any strategy. The layoffs didn't happen with any strategy. The people, like what you do after big layoffs like this, first of all, you handle the layoffs well, so it's not a disaster.

Brian Morrissey (01:01:02.764)
Doesn't need a strategy.

Alex (01:01:30.219)
press and people don't lose trust with the brand, they probably lost a bunch of subscribers.

Brian Morrissey (01:01:32.226)
First of all, is it possible, name anyone who has done layoffs, and I think media is particularly terrible at layoffs, and partially because the people you're laying off are feral. They're cats, not dogs, as Troy Affleck put it out. But I don't know anyone who has done layoffs, particularly, this scale is massive, right? I don't know anyone who's done them quote unquote well.

Alex (01:01:44.285)
Riders. Yeah.

Troy (01:01:56.227)
In just for clarity, in all those examples, people couldn't be more different than the Dow Jones. Bloomberg has its own idiosyncrasies. All of them leveraged kind of modern realities of media in a way to create a good business with a lot of pressure, be it economic, changing advertising, distribution, unions, all of that. And you want to ask what publishers should build.

Alex (01:01:57.173)
I mean, how many people that they love?

Brian Morrissey (01:02:00.536)
300.

Troy (01:02:24.638)
At the end of the day, you got to do something that people want to pay for. You got to have convening power. You have to do differentiated reporting. The robots can't do reporting. You have to look at the brand expansively. Brands matter more than ever. Licensing is really an important part of it. Increasingly, advertisers are demanding performance solutions, so none of us can escape from that. And in the world of LLMs, you have to have something highly differentiated.

And it's probably related to either your reporting or your data sets or your ability to convene communities of people. And all of those things, like what does that mean to the Washington Post? Figure it out. It's not that hard, right? It might mean that you need to be 300 people instead of a thousand people. That's fine. We get overly sentimental about layoffs. Listen, like today Heineken announced that we're going to get rid of 6,000 people today. Last week, Amazon announced, just let me finish, Alex.

Alex (01:03:14.623)
It's not it's not Troy Troy Troy I know

Troy (01:03:22.178)
16,000 people. Okay, I get that that that journalists are a rare beat and we get highly sentimental about these people that are You know play this priest like role in our culture. I think it's really important by the way There's gonna be no shortage of people reporting on shit because we all make media

Alex (01:03:22.921)
Yeah, sure.

Brian Morrissey (01:03:28.566)
I know, I know.

Alex (01:03:39.465)
Yeah, but Troy, Yes, 100 % agree. You you needed to trim this business down. By the way, I like 300 people got fired. You know, when the pandemic hit, I had to fire at least 200 people on my own team. So I've managed these things. I understand it's like it's the shittiest thing. Nobody ever wants to do it. But when you see execution, that is so fucking terrible. Not only terrible, like, you know, let's say you didn't even care how they treated people.

the way they managed to make it look like they didn't know what the hell they were doing, that there wasn't somebody, that the CEO was absent, that there wasn't somebody that's going to come in and here's the strategy and here's our renewed focus with a clear vision, right? You're going to have upset people, but you can look at the way it was done in such a of sloppy way in either one or two things. They are incompetent or they don't care because at the end of the day, they just need a shell to

promote some sort of message so that they can buy into the things. And I think either one of those isn't good. And yes, you can defend the layoffs, but you can do layoffs differently. Nobody's going to ever like them, but you can do them differently. Anyway, this was badly done. It's badly done. Laying off 300 people, tech companies like Amazon would lay off 7,000.

Troy (01:05:00.374)
You know, I do have a little bit of sympathy though, Alex, right? Because you have people like God bless them, Dylan Byers, like covering your every move for months and months and months, having Matt Murray on his podcast, asking him if Will is, is Will really an asshole? Like, is he really incompetent? Is he really an idiot? Answer the question on my podcast. Like this, the amount of coverage that this stuff gets.

Alex (01:05:25.771)
That's what the press does. So what? They don't like the mirror pointed back to them? Isn't that the way this shit goes?

Brian Morrissey (01:05:34.304)
Yeah, of all the people, I mean, that's why I like focusing on salespeople because they can't complain if I'm aggressive in the sales. mean, journalists can't be too sensitive about people doing journalism.

Alex (01:05:42.923)
You know, it's like the... Exactly, it's like people working at TMZ that all of sudden want their privacy. Come on. Like, come on. You know the game.

Brian Morrissey (01:05:52.184)
Yeah, I mean, by the way, Matt Murray did take a lot of... I give Matt a lot of credit for being the front man on there. Reminded me of you, actually, taking on being the front person for union negotiations.

Troy (01:05:58.576)
my god, he took on a lot. Yeah.

Troy (01:06:07.542)
I mean, I got to tell you personally, someone who had been in those roles that you weren't there for this kind of move is absolutely despicable.

Alex (01:06:16.201)
It's awful. It's just awful.

Troy (01:06:20.502)
Anyway.

Brian Morrissey (01:06:20.522)
Yeah, it's going to be tough. It's too bad it didn't line up with our reputation episode because I don't think that did a ton for Willow's reputation. maybe he could come on my podcast, try to repair things. We'll see. Do we have a good product?

Troy (01:06:39.49)
Well, you guys can kick in a little bit. One of the things I like most about eating in Jamaica are the Scotch bonnet peppers, which if you ask, they'll dice it up fresh and you just sprinkle them on your food. They're hot, but they're flavorful. So it's not just mindless heat, it's flavor plus heat. I thought though that seems that

that's opened me up for some criticism. would say that there's a, know, with, with all this stuff going on, trying to figure out like in the AI stuff that we talked about, figuring out what you should do as a person making products or marketing products, going into, you know, a very uncertain time. It's good to have people that are kind of mapping out what the important trends are. And there's this,

There's this agency called Arcade Studios in Toronto that released this deep dive into 2026 trends called ScanClub. it was real, you know, they do it on Substack and then they point you to the five trends that they think are important for the year. they

They show examples of each of the trends on a big Figma board, Alex, which I thought was really nice. Figma as a tool to present a case study feels modern to me. And I'll just go and highlight a couple of things that they talked about.

Alex (01:08:10.187)
Nice.

Troy (01:08:28.417)
one sec.

Alex (01:08:32.966)
will make the sound seamless.

Troy (01:08:39.498)
I made a note of it and I can't do it off the top of my head.

Troy (01:08:47.243)
so each of their observations fit into one of five categories. So improvisation as a way to bring back serendipity into what you create as a marketer, like little moments, things that happen spontaneously that feel exciting, analog everything.

I mean, my household, journaling has become huge. My wife and my daughter are super into journaling and these French journaling books that they buy. was a feature in the Times about them. But, know, vinyl, journaling, cooking, crafts, hobbies, all big.

Alex (01:09:24.715)
Thanks.

Brian Morrissey (01:09:26.412)
Sounds very Brooklyn.

Brian Morrissey (01:09:31.04)
All these things are Brooklyn.

Alex (01:09:33.141)
Hey, I went to Amiibo Records here in San Francisco over the weekend. It was packed with young people. It was amazing. Yeah.

Troy (01:09:39.338)
Yeah. you know, kind of romance of mundane things like preparing a meal for a friend camp, camp is really big, which is like maximalism, absurd, cringes and cool now, storytelling or what they refer to as lore, from a sort of trusted narrator where the audience can kind of participate as things unfold and, and, and

that you can kind of dream about the stories that are being told. I think it's a cool document. We can put the link to it in the notes. I shared it with you guys. If you want to see the Figma board, it's pretty cool. Good.

Brian Morrissey (01:10:25.122)
Would my mixers fit in here? I think they do. They tick several of those categories.

Troy (01:10:31.03)
camp.

Alex (01:10:32.619)
Brian's managed to his mixers four times, I think, three or four times. Now, Brian, Brian, I want to... So to get people excited about next week's episode, Brian's going to report back about his mixer and how the Beehive sponsorship is working out.

Brian Morrissey (01:10:33.944)
Wait till the sock hop rolls around.

Brian Morrissey (01:10:49.999)
Absolutely. All right, guys, I gotta go. I gotta go prepare for the mixer. This is fun. See you.

Alex (01:10:54.72)
That's...

Troy (01:10:55.244)
See you.

Alex (01:10:58.283)
Yeah.

